                   UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE
                           BEFORE THE DIRECTOR OF THE
                   UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE

In the Matter of                                )
                                                )
Anthony Matos,                                  )           Proceeding No. D2025-13
                                                )
     Respondent                                 )


                                           FINAL ORDER

      The Director of the Office of Enrollment and Discipline ("OED Director") for the United
States Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO" or "Office") and Anthony Matos ("Respondent")
have submitted a Proposed Settlement Agreement ("Agreement") to the Under Secretary of
Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office
("USPTO Director") for approval.

      The Agreement, which resolves all disciplinary action by the USPTO arising from the joint
stipulated facts set forth below, is hereby approved. This Final Order sets fmth the parties'
stipulated facts, legal conclusions, and sanctions.

                                          Jurisdiction

I.     At all times relevant hereto, Respondent of New York, New York, was an attorney
admitted to practice in the State ofNew York, currently in good standing, and admitted to
practice in the State ofNew Jersey, currently in good standing. Respondent, at all times relevant
to this matter, has engaged in practice before the Office in trademark matters. Respondent is
authorized to practice before the USPTO in trademark matters. See 5 U.S.C. § 500(b);
37 C.F.R. § 11. 14(a). Respondent is subject to the US PTO Rules of Professional Conduct,
37 C.F.R. § II.IOI et seq.

2.   The USPTO Director has jurisdiction over this matter pursuant to 35 U.S.C. §§ 2(b)(2)(D)
and 32 and 37 C.F.R. §§ 11.19, 11.20, and 11.26.

                                     Joint Stipulated Facts

I.   Respondent represented the owner of a U.S. registered trademark before the USPTO's
Trademark Trial and Appeal Board ("TTAB") as the defendant in Cancellation Proceeding
No. 92077944 ("Cancellation Proceeding").

2.     Prior to representing the mark owner in the Cancellation Proceeding, Respondent had not
practiced before the USPTO in trademark matters in any capacity, including before the TTAB.
Respondent represents that he had limited familiarity with trademark law and that this case was
his first experience with trademark law.
3.  The party seeking cancellation ("Petitioner") filed their trial brief with the TTAB on
August 17, 2023.

4.     In connection with his representation, Respondent filed a trial brief for the mark owner
("Defendant's Brief") with the TTAB on September 17, 2023. The Defendant's Brief asserted,
inter alia, that the parties had a prior coexistence agreement that precluded the Petitioner from
challenging the owner's mark.

5.    The Petitioner filed a Rebuttal Brief in the matter on October 2, 2023. The Rebuttal Brief
asserted the following regarding the Defendant's Brief filed by the Respondent:

          a.   Defendant's Brief cited and purported to quote from Starbucks U.S. Brands, LLC
               v. Ruben, 78 USPQ2d 1741 (TTAB 2006) as precedent for the notion that a clear
               and unambiguous contract controls irrespective of later-discovered facts and that
               parties cannot take differing positions in cases in different proceedings, but there
               is no such quote in the decision;

          b.   Defendant's Brief cites a case, E.J. Brach C01p. v. Gilbert/Robinson, Inc.,
               185 USPQ 597 (TTAB 1975), for the proposition that "agreements are binding
               and not provisional upon subsequent discoveries," but the case has nothing to do
               with the arguments for which it is cited; and

          c.   Defendant's Brief cites Cunningham v. Laser GolfC01p., 55 USPQ2d 1842
               (TTAB 2000) concerning the weight to be given to uncorroborated testimony, but
               there is no such discussion in Cunningham.

6.   The TTAB issued a non-precedential Opinion in the Cancellation Proceeding on
February 7, 2024.

7.   In the Opinion, the TTAB stated that the opposing party's observations regarding the
Defendant's Brief are "correct." Specifically, the TTAB noted:

               [T]here is no discussion in [Starbucks U.S. Brands, LLq about "clear
               contractual language" - the topic for which Respondent cites the decision.
               The quotation appearing in Respondent's trial brief which Respondent
               attributes to the cited case appears nowhere in the decision;

               In Cunningham, there is no discussion about the weight to be given
               uncorroborated testimony; [and]

               Even worse, the case "E.J. Brach C01p. v. Gilbert/Robinson, Inc.,
               185 USPQ 597 (TTAB 1975)" does not exist. Our research revealed several
               cases in which E.J. Brach Corp. was a party, but none in which
               Gilbert/Robinson, Inc., was also a named party. Indeed, we could find no
               decision of ours in which Gilbert/Robinson, Inc., was a named party.




                                                 2
8.    In the Opinion, the TTAB further observed that their investigation into the discrepancies
identified by the Petitioner led them to discover additional problems in the Defendant's Brief,
including the following:

            a.   Quotes from a nonexistent case, "CEP Holdings, LLC. v. Bieber, 107 USPQ2d
                 1402 (TTAB 2013)." The USPQ2d reporter citation encompasses a decision in
                 iCall, Inc. v. Tribair, Inc. (107 USPQ2d 1401 (N.D. Cal. 2012)). The quotations
                 attributed to "CEP Holdings" do not appear in the iCall decision.

            b.   Citation to another nonexistent case, "U.S. Olympic Committee v. S. Industries
                 pie, 63 USPQ2d 2001 (TTAB 2002)."

            c.   Citation to the well-known decision, Union Carbide Corp. v. Ever-Ready Inc.,
                 531 F.2d 366, 188 USPQ 623 (7th Cir. 1976), arguing that the case "emphasized
                 that agreements that are clear in their intent should be upheld even in the face of
                 potential misrepresentation, especially when both parties clearly understand the
                 subject matter and implications of the agreement." This issue is not discussed in
                 the case.

            d.   Citation to "Beck v. Mamifacturers Hanover Trust Co., 98 A.D.2d 8, 469
                 N.Y.S.2d 14 (1983)." While there is a case entitled "Beck v. Mamifacturers
                 Hanover Trust Co.," it is reported at 218 A.D.2d 1,632 N.Y.S.2d 520 and has
                 nothing to do with the issue for which it is cited in the Defendant's Brief.

9.   In the Opinion, the petition to cancel the mark was denied on the basis of Respondent's
argument that the Petitioner's claims were precluded by contractual estoppel.

10. Respondent represents that he drafted the Defendant's Brief by reviewing the Petitioner's
brief and formulating responses to each point raised to the extent possible.

11. Respondent represents that he used internet searches to identify "blog posts and articles"
discussing the problematic case citations identified in the Defendant's Brief.

12. When asked by the TTAB whether he read the decisions he identified via the internet
searches, Respondent admitted that he had not done so and explained that he did not have access
to the case reporters in question.

13. Respondent asserts that, while he did use a generative artificial intelligence ("AI") tool to
learn more about the mechanics ofTTAB proceedings, he did not use any such tool in the
drafting of the Defendant's Brief itself.

14.    The TTAB noted:

                  [Respondent] did not comply with the basic, critical obligations set fotih in
                  the rules quoted above. 1 Failing to read the decisions cited in a trial brief

1 The rnles referenced are 37 C.F.R. §§ 2.116(a),   l 1.18(b)(2)(ii), l l.303, and Fed. R. Civ. P. l I.


                                                            3
               represents a dereliction of the duty to perform "an inquiry reasonable under
               the circumstances" sufficient to certify that the "legal contentions therein
               are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the
               extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of
               new law." Attributing propositions of law to decisions that did not discuss
               those propositions is bad enough. Purporting to actually quote from
               decisions where neither the quote nor anything like it appears is worse. And
               worst of all is citing or purporting to quote from decisions that do not exist.

                                                 *****
               The conduct ... is not only contrary to the rules sets forth above, but also
               represents a failure to perform this core duty in the practice of law. The
               Board, like other tribunals and courts in the adversary system ofjustice used
               in this country, rely on counsel to frame the issues for decision.
               Representing that cited decisions stand for legal propositions not implicated
               in the decisions undermines the decisional process. And we are at a loss for
               words that adequately express the gravity of Respondents' citation of
               fictitious decisions.

      (emphasis in original)

15. The TTAB also noted that the Petitioner's Rebuttal Brief put Respondent on notice
regarding some of the problematic citations but that Respondent did not seek to explain or rectify
the citations in the nearly two-month period between submission of the Rebuttal Brief and the
Oral Hearing held on December 13, 2023.

16. Respondent represents that he did not know that he could make any filing after the
Petitioner's Rebuttal Brief and that he requested the Oral Hearing so that he could address the
problematic citation issue.

                                   Additional Considerations

17.   Respondent cooperated fully with OED's investigation.

18. Respondent has acknowledged his ethical lapses, demonstrated genuine contrition, and
accepted responsibility for his acts and omissions.


                                     Joint Legal Conclusions

19. Respondent acknowledges that, based on the information contained in the joint stipulated
facts, above, that his actions in connection with submission of the Defendant's Brief in the
Cancellation Proceeding violated the following provisions of the USPTO Rules of Professional
Conduct:

       a. 37 C.F.R. § I I.IOI (a practitioner shall provide competent representation) by, inter
          alia, (I) not utilizing reasonable legal research tools in connection with representation


                                                  4
           of a client, (2) not adequately reviewing case law submitted with the TTAB in
           connection with a legal proceeding before the tribunal, and (3) not understanding the
           requirements of 37 C.F.R. § I 1.18 when presenting any paper to the USPTO;

       b. 37 C.F.R. § 11.103 (not acting with reasonable diligence) by, inter alia, (I) not
          utilizing reasonable legal research tools in connection with representation of a client,
          (2) not adequately reviewing case law submitted with the TTAB in connection with a
          legal proceeding before the tribunal, and (3) prior to presenting Defendant's Brief to
          the TTAB, not conducting an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances as required
          by 37 C.F.R. § 11.18 in order to certify that the legal contentions set forth in the brief
          were warranted by existing law;

       c. 37 C.F.R. § 11 .301 (meritorious claims and contentions) by, inter alia, presenting
          legal contentions in the brief that were not warranted by existing law;

       d. 37 C.F.R. § l 1.804(c) (engaging in conduct involving misrepresentation) by, inter
          alia, presenting non-existent case law to the TTAB; and

       e. 37 C.F.R. § l l.804(d) (engaging in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of
          justice) by, inter alia, (I) prior to presenting Defendant's Brief to the TTAB, not
          conducting an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances as required by 37 C.F.R.
           § 11.18 in order to certify that the legal contentions set forth in the Defendant's Brief
          were warranted by existing law, and (2) presenting non-existent case law to the
          TTAB.

                                     Agreed-Upon Sanction

20.   Respondent freely and voluntarily agrees, and it is hereby ORDERED that:

       a. Respondent is publicly reprimanded;

       b. Within six months of the date of this Final Order, Respondent shall (a) attend two
          hours of continuing legal education ("CLE") on the topic of the use of generative AI
          in legal practice and (b) provide the OED Director with written evidence of his CLE
          attendance;

       c. The OED Director shall electronically publish this Final Order at the OED's
          electronic FOIA Reading Room, which is publicly accessible through the Office's
          website at: https://foiadocuments.uspto.gov/oed/;

       d. The OED Director shall publish a notice in the Official Gazette that is materially
          consistent with the following:




                                                 5
                               Notice of Public Reprimand

            This notice concems Anthony Matos of New York, New York, who is
            licensed to practice law in New York and New Jersey, and who has
            practiced before the USPTO in trademark matters. Mr. Matos is not
            registered to practice before the Office in patent matters. The USPTO
            Director publicly reprimanded Mr. Matos for violating 37 C.F.R. §§ 11. 101
            (a practitioner shall provide competent representation), 11.103 (not acting
            with reasonable diligence), 11.301 (meritorious claims and contentions),
            11.804(c) (engaging in conduct involving misrepresentation), and 11.804(d)
            (engaging in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice)
            predicated on submitting a brief to the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board
            containing inaccurate citations and non-existent quotes to existing case law
            and citation to non-existent case law. In violation of 37 C.F.R. § 11.18,
            Mr. Matos failed to read case citations he found using internet searches
            revealing discussion of the cases on blog posts and articles before
            incorporating them into his brief and presenting the brief to the TTAB.

            This action is the result of a settlement agreement between Anthony Matos
            and the OED Director pursuant to the provisions of35 U.S.C. §§ 2(b)(2)(D)
            and 32 and 37 C.F.R. §§ 11.19, 11.20, and 11.26. Disciplinary decisions
            involving practitioners are posted for public reading at the Office of
            Emollment       and     Discipline     Reading    Room     accessible  at:
            https://foiadocuments.uspto.gov/oed/;

e. Nothing in this Final Order shall prevent the Office from considering the record of this
   disciplinary proceeding, including this Final Order: (I) when addressing any further
   complaint or evidence of the same or similar misconduct conceming Respondent brought
   to the attention of the Office; and (2) in any future disciplinary proceeding against
   Respondent (i) as an aggravating factor to be taken into consideration in determining any
   discipline to be imposed, and/or (ii) to rebut any statement or representation by or on
   Respondent's behalf;

f.   Based on Respondent's agreement to do so, Respondent waives all rights to seek
     reconsideration of this Final Order under 37 C.F.R. § 11.56, waives the right to have this
     Final Order reviewed under 37 C.F.R. § 11.57, and waives the right otherwise to appeal
     or challenge this Final Order in any manner; and

g. Each party shall bear their own costs incurred to date and in carrying out the terms of the
   Agreement and this Final Order.


                                    (signature page follows)




                                              6
                        (signature page for Final Order (D2025-13))


                             Digitally signed by Users,
Users, Choe,                 Choe, Tricia
                             Date: 2025.03.06 09:30:52
Tricia                       -05'00'
Tricia Choe                                                        Date
Associate General Counsel for General Law
United States Patent and Trademark Office

on delegated authority by

Coke Stewart
Acting Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and
Acting Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office




                                            7
                                 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE


I hereby ce1iify the foregoing Final Order was mailed by first-class certified mail, return receipt
requested, and transmitted by electronic mail, on this day to Respondent as follows:

                                      Mr. Anthony Matos
                                   690 Academy St. APT. 4A
                                   New York, NY 10034-4214

                                                and




DATE                                                  U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
                                                             P.O. Box 1450
                                                             Alexandria, VA 22313-1450
