       APPELLATE I.JPDATE

PUBLISHED BY THE                                                                      NOVEMBER 2OI7
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE COURTS                                                  VOLUME 25, NO. 3




  Appelløte Update is a service provided by the Administrative Office of the Courts to assist in
  lóóating p,rbli.h"d decisions olth" Arkansas Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals. It is not
  un omJifu publication of the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeals. It is not intended to be a
  complete .u1¡rnury of each case; rather, it hightights some of the issues in the case. A case of
  interest can be found in its entirety by searching this website:
  http s //opinions. arcourts. gov/ark/en/nav' do
       :




  ANNOUNCEMENTS

   on December 7th, the Supreme Court adopted rules changes to be effective January I,2018. The
   rules affected are Rules of Civil Procedure 45,45.1 (new), Sup, Ct, R. 4-6, Rules of App. P.-Civ
   2, and l2 (new). Administrative Order No. 2 was amended regarding the entry of orders by the
  judg,..



   CRIMINAL

   Ray v. State,2OlT Ark. App. 574 [constitutional challenges; Ark. Code Ann. $ 12'12'919]
                                                                                                 A
   rational basis exists for treating sex offenders convicted under more than one case number
   differently than those convicted under a single case number. The legislative intent behind the
   sex-offender registry is to protect the public from sex offenders, whom the legislature has found
   to pose a high risk of reoffending after having been released from custody, Individuals convicted
   of a subsequent sex offense under a second case number have committed more than one sex
   crime, and the General Assembly could have concluded that these individuals are more likely to
   reoffend. The requirements under the Sex Offender Registration Act have been determined to be



                                                   1
civil in nature and as such cannot be considered violative of the ex postfacro prohibitions of the
United States or Arkansas Constitutions. (Phillips, G.: CR-I7-294;11-I-17 Klappenbach, N.)

Harrison v, State,2017 Ark. App. 580 [severance] A defendant has a right to a severance when
two or more offenses have been joined solely on the ground that they are of the same or similar
character. Otherwise, granting or refusing a severance is within the discretion of the trial court,
and the decision by the trial court will not be disturbed absent an abuse of discretion. A
severance motion may be denied if the two offenses were part of a single scheme or plan or if
both offenses require the same evidence, In appellant's case, the circuit court refused to sever
the murder-in-the first-degree charge from the possession-of-a-firearm-by-a-certain-person
charge, The Arkansas Supreme Court has explained that while possession of a firearm is a
common element with murder perpetrated by means of a firearm, the introduction of a conviction
of a prior felony as required for a possession-of-a-firearm-by-certain-persons charge has nothing
to do with the elements of proof required for murder in the hrst degree. Moreover, the Court
advised that presentation of a prior conviction to the jury runs the risk of prejudicing the trial of
the joined offense to some degree. Because the two offenses in appellant's case were not part of
a single scheme or plan nor did they require the same evidence, the trial court erred in refusing to
sever the two charges. (Proctor, R.; CR-16-820; l 1' l-17; Hixson, K.)


Cummings v. State,2017 Ark. App. 573 [bond reduction] The proper means to challenge a bond
decision is by a writ of certiorari and a party who does not seek a timely writ of certiorari from a
bond decision abandons the issue. Once an appellant has been found guilty and is incarcerated,
the issue of pretrial bond is moot. (Clawson, C.: CR-17-187; 1I-I-17; Harrison, B')


State v. Cossio,2017 Ark.297 lrape-shield statute; Ark. R. Evid. 4111 The trial court abused
its discretion when it admitted evidence of the victim's prior sexual conduct with a third party
because the evidence was not relevant or admissible under the rape-shield statute or Ark. R'
Evid. 411. Contrary to the appellant's assertion, the evidence was not relevant to show the res
gestae of the charged offense or to establish the relationship between the parties. (Wright, H';
CR-17-250; ll-2-17; Goodson, C.)

pennington v. State,2017 Ark.305 [sentencing] A trial court cannot amend the original valid
sentence to run the sentences consecutively after a sentence has been put into execution.
However, that rule does not apply if the original sentences were invalid, and the case is reversed
and remanded for resentencing. Additionally, where a sentence involves separate sentences, as
with several counts for example, the law generally prohibits the modification of the legal portion
of the sentence. However, when there is an error in one portion of an individual sentence, the
court views the sentence as an indivisible totality and if modification is required, the court may
on resentencing impose any sentence it could have lawfully imposed at the outset. In appellant's
case, because his original sentence was invalid, on remand for resentencing the circuit court was


                                                  2
permitted to impose any sentence that would have been permissible at the time the original
sentence was imposed, which could include requiring that appellant serve the multiple sentences
consecutively, (Wright, H,; CR-17-143; lI-2-17; Wynne, R.)

Hanley v. State,2017 Ark. App. 583 [sentencing] "Double counting" jail time is impermissible,
Credit for jail time is appropriate when the pretrial incarceration is due to inability to make bail,
but not appropriate when the incarceration is due wholly to unrelated charges based on conduct
other than that for which the defendant is sentenced, (Jones, B.; CR-17-185; 11-8-17; Gruber, R.)

Todd v, State,2017 Ark. App. 587 [Ark. R. Crim. P.37.2|Because appellant's petition seeking
post-conviction relief complied with the terms of Rule 37 .2 (g) of the Arkansas Rules of
Criminal Procedure, the trial court erred when it denied the petition based upon untimeliness.
(Culpepper, D.: CR-17-12; 1l-8-17; Virden, B.)


Baltimore v. State,2017 Ark. App. 622 [sufficiency of the evidence; possession of cocaine;
constructive possessionl Constructive possession can be inferred when drugs are in the joint
control of the accused and another, However, joint occupancy of a vehicle, standing alone, is not
sufficient to establish possession or joint possession. There must be some other factor linking
the accused to the drugs. Other factors to be considered in cases involving automobiles occupied
by more than one person are: (l) whether the contraband is in plain view; (2) whether the
contraband is found with the accused's personal effects; (3) whether it is found on the same side
of the car seat as the accused was sitting or in near proximity to it; (4) whether the accused is the
owner of the automobile or exercises dominion and control over it; and (5) whether the accused
acted suspiciously before or during the arrest. In appellant's case, the only evidence linking
appellant to the cocaine that was found in the vehicle was the fact that he was driving the jointly
occupied vehicle when it was pulled over and the cocaine was found in the front center cup
holder. Beyond those two factors, there was a lack of evidence linking appellant to the cocaine.
The prosecution failed to elicit any testimony that established who owned the vehicle; whether
the cocaine was found in plain view or whether things had to be moved in order to see it; where
in the cup holder the cocaine was found; whether the cup holder was open or had a closed lid; the
proximity of the cocaine in the front center cup holder to the front-seat passenger; on which
floorboard the cocaine was found; whether the cocaine was found with appellant's personal
effects; and whether he acted suspiciously before or during his arrest. Based upon the facts of the
case, the appellate court concluded that the evidence was insufficient to raise a reasonable
inference that appellant knew that the two small rocks of cocaine were in the front center cup
holder or on the floorboard of the vehicle. Accordingly, substantial evidence did not support the
circuit court's finding that appellant constructively possessed the cocaine. (Johnson, L.; CR-17-
 157 l1-15-17; Vaught, L,)




                                                  -3
Myers v. State,2017 Ark. App.617 [sex-offender] Sexual abuse in the second degree is not a
substantially equivalent offense to aggravated sexual abuse as defined in 18 U.S,C. $ 22a1(a)(1),
which requires "knowingly causing another person to engage in a sexual act by using force
against that other person." Thus, sexual abuse in the second degree is not an"aggravated sex
offense" as that term is defined by Ark. Code Ann. ç12-12-903(3). (Dennis, J.; CR-17-131; 1 1-
| 5 -17 ; Klappenbach, N.)


Cutsinger v. State,2017 Ark. App.647 [motion in limine] Appellant requested that the trial
court exclude from evidence a portion of a text message that he sent to a friend. The challenged
message stated: "I'm ready to kill me some cops," Appellant's defense at trial was that he did not
have the requisite mental state to commit the crimes with which he was charged which included
murder and attempted murder of individuals who were not police officers. The appellate court
concluded that because the text message was not relevant to the issue of appellant's mental state
for the murder and attempted murder of individuals who were not police officers, the trial court
erred by denying appellant's motion in limine and admitting the evidence. (Cox, J,; CR-17-96;
I I -29 -17;'Whiteaker, P.)



CIVIL

Gerber Products Co. v. CECO Concrete Const., LLC,2017 Ark. App. 568 [work product
interlocutory appeal] Based on the facts of the case, Gerber waived its right to assert the
privilege by failing to object in a timely fashion. Gerber failed to object on the grounds of
attorney-client and work-product privileges in its initial responses to discovery, it waited more
than two years to assert those privileges. Moreover, Gerber's lack of a timely objection persisted,
despite its having been informed in the earliest stages of discovery that it had inadvertently
delivered privileged materials to CECO; and despite the fact that the circuit court's July 2013
order to compel pointed out Gerber's failure to object to the requests. Further, Gerber continued
to produce over 100,000 pages of documents during discovery while still making no objection on
the basis of the attorney-client and work-product privileges. [inadvertent disclosure] The circuit
court was within its discretion to determine that a waiver occurred based on Gerber's lack of
precautions to prevent inadvertent disclosure. The record shows that the court's concern about
Gerber's lack of precautions was well-founded. For example, Gerber cites an affidavit from a
representative of its former law firm as evidence of precautions taken against the inadvertent
disclosure of privileged documents. However, the affidavit is lacking in detail on that subject and
would by no means require the circuit court to find that reasonable precautions were taken.
Moreover, the series of events throughout the parties' multiyear history of discovery
demonstrates a pattern by Gerber of providing large numbers of documents without objection
and without sufficient and diligent screening for privileged materials. (Tabor, S.; CV-16-1096;
l1-1-17; Abramson, R.)


                                                 4
Dept. of Corrections Co. v, Shults, 2017 Ark.300 [FolA-lethal drugs] The circuit court was
correct in determining that the identity of drug manufacturers is not protected under the
confidentiality provisions of section 5-4-617 . However, because disclosure of information such
as lot, control, and/or batch numbers could lead to the identif,rcation of the seller and/or supplier
of the midazolam, the ADC is correct that it is required to redact and maintain this information as
confidential under section 5-4-617O. The portion of the circuit court's order requiring disclosure
of the unredacted records is reversed and remanded for the court to determine, based on the
evidence presented by the parties, which information must be redacted on the midazolam labels
and/or package inserts at issue, (Pierce, M.; CV-17-888; 1l-2-I7; Goodson, C.)


Box v, J.B. Hunt,2017 Ark. App. 605 [employment-noncompete] Box, a former employee of
J.B. Hunt brings this interlocutory appeal from the trial court's order granting Hunt's motion for
an injunction and temporary restraining order. In the order, the trial court enjoined Box from
disclosing conhdential information and trade secrets to Hub Group and from employment with
Hub Group for a period of one year from Box's separation from J.B. Hunt. The temporary order
was based on three agreements containing confidentiality, noncompete, and restricted stock
provisions executed between the parties during Box's employment. 1. The trial court erred in
finding that J.B. Hunt established a likelihood of success that Box had violated the 2013
noncompete and nonsolicit agreement. A party seeking a preliminary injunction bears the burden
to prove a reasonable probability of success on the merits. In this case, there was testimony
indicating that any information obtained by Box while working for J.B. Hunt in the intermodal
division between 2004 and 2011 would be dated and less useful due to changed conditions.
Moreover, J.B. Hunt produced no evidence of any specific conhdential information that Box had
obtained during his employment, And there was an absence of any evidence that any conf,rdential
information would be inevitably disclosed by Box or would give Hub Group an unfair
advantage. J.B. Hunt's witnesses merely testihed in conclusory fashion that unspecified
information obtained by Box during his employment with J.B. Hunt could be used in his
employment with Hub Group; this was not sufficient to demonstrate a reasonable probability that
Box violated the agreement. 2. The trial court did not find the necessary facts to trigger the
noncompete clause in the restricted stock agreement. The trial court here and in other parts of its
order used the phrase "presumptively and voluntarily" to essentially find that, because Box
voluntarily signed the agreements, J.B, Hunt is presumptively entitled to injunctive relief
regardless of the facts. However, by signing the restricted stock agreement, Box did not agree
that J.B, Hunt would automatically be entitled to injunctive relief; he agreed that it would be
entitled to injunctive relief only if Box committed a violation of the agreement. This necessarily
involves an inquiry into whether Box likely violated the agreement based on the evidence
presented. Because the trial court made no f,rndings on that issue, it erroneously awarded
injunctive relief based on the restricted stock agreement. (Karren, B.; CV-17-207; ll-9-I7;
Hixson, K,)



                                                  5
Bqker v. Dept. Human Services, 2017 Ãrk. App. 593 [employment termination] Employee
challenged her firing. ADHS contends that Baker's suit was properly dismissed for her failure to
challenge her termination through ADHS's grievance procedures. It is well established thal a
litigant must exhaust her administrative remedies before instituting litigation to challenge the
action of the administrative agency. (Fox, T.; CV-17-171; 11-9-17; Gladwin, R.)


Holladay v. Glass, 2017 Ark. App. 595 IFOIA] A prison transport manifest did not fall within
the scope of the "undisclosed investigation" exception to the Arkansas Freedom of Information
Act. The manifest at issue in this case was simply a record kept in the regular course of business
and was not investigatory in nature such that the exemption would apply. Attorney's fees and
costs were properly awarded to person making the request. (Griffen, W.; CV-17-159; 1l-9-17;
Harrison, B,)

Ogborn v. DHS, 2017 Ark. App. 600 [administrative appeal] Ogborn appeals the
administrative decision of the Department of Human Services (DHS) to place her name on the
Child Maltreatment Central Registry. Circuit court properly affirmed the administrative decision.
The administrative judged did not err in finding that it was bound by the decision of the Benton
County Circuit Court in the dependency-neglect adjudication. (Smith, T; CV-17-173; ll-9-17;
Whiteaker, P.)

Ashley Bancstock Co. v. Meredith, 2017 Ark. App. 598 [corporations-shareholders rights]
Shareholders of ABC demanded to inspect and copy certain records of ABC pursuant to
Arkansas Code Annotated section 4-26-715. Instead of providing the requested records, ABC
sued them in circuit court seeking declaratory relief regarding the nature and extent of the
records the shareholders were entitled to inspect and copy pursuant to the statute. The circuit
court properly found the shareholders were entitled to all the records they sought. Challenges to
request on the following grounds were properly rejected: (1) Corporation was not required to
produce sensitive financial records that spanned a nine-year period; (2) Shareholders were not
entitled to inspect and copy the records of related entities; and (3) Shareholders were not entitled
to copies of liability-insurance policies, (Glover, D.; CV-16-657;11-9-17; Glover, D.)

DHS v. Ledgerwoo d,2017 Ark, 30S (TROI DHS contends that the circuit court abused its
discretion in granting appellees' motion for temporary restraining order and enjoining it from
reassessing appellees by using the RUGs methodology. Specifically, DHS argues that the circuit
court abused its discretion in finding that appellees (1) demonstrated a likelihood of success on
the merits and (2) will suffer irreparable harm in the absence of a TRO. Given the evidence,
appellees have provided a suffrcient showing of irreparable harm to justify the circuit court's
issuance of a temporary restraining order. Appellees have sustained injuries for which money
damages are not available. Based on their sworn affrdavits, appellees admit that they have
suffered lack of food, have remained in soiled clothes, have gone without bathing, have missed


                                                  6
treatments and turnings, face increased risk of falling, have become more isolated, and have
suffered worsened medical conditions as a result of their lack of care provided by DHS, The
moving party has demonstrated a likelihood of success on the merits. Without delving into the
underlying merits of appellees' ongoing claims, it appears that they have demonstrated a
substantial likelihood of success on the merits that, by failing to provide proper notice, DHS did
not substantially comply with section 25-15- 204 inpromulgating the new RUGs methodology.
(Griffen, W.; CV-17-183;November 9, 2017; Kemp, J.)

Tran v. Vo Meredith,2077 Ark. App. 618 [new triat/jury instructions] Trial court abused its
discretion in finding that a new trial was warranted due to a jury instruction not including a
definition of clear and convincing evidence. There was no objection to the instruction and the
basis improperly raised by the trial court on its own did not warrant a new trial. (V/elch, M; CV-
17-l17; lll5-Il    Klappenbach, M.)


Swindle v, State Ferm,2017 Ark. Ãpp. 632 [dismissaVres judicata] The trial court found that
res judicata based on issue preclusion applied and dismissed appellant's complaint. This was in
error. Although an attorney client relationship is usually suffrcient to satisfu the privity
requirement, this is not the case when the parties' interests are adversary to each other. Thus, the
trial court erred by finding that res judicata supported dismissal of appellant's claim against State
Farm, (Karren, B,; CV-17-3I0; fi-15-17 Brown, V/.)

Engleman v. McCullough,20IT Ark. App, 613 [jury instruction] The trial court did not err in
giving AMI 1501 because it accurately states the law and must be given in medical-malpractice
cases such as this one. A trial court is required to give AMI 1501 in its entirety when plaintiffs
contend medical-care providers acted negligently in treating their patients, and failure to do so
would have been reversible error. (Jackson, S.; CV-16-786; ll45-17; Gladwin, R')

Industrial Welding Supplies v. Pinsen,2017 Ark.315 [class certification] The circuit court's
order failed to comply with the mandatory requirements contained in Rule 23(b) of the Arkansas
Rules of Civil Procedure -- that "la]n order certifying a class action must define the class and the
class claims, issues, or defenses." Here, the circuit court defined the class as "all persons who
were employed by Industrial Welding Supplies of Hattiesburg, LLC on December 3 l, 20II,
were so employed for at least one year prior thereto, and continued to be so employed until
Industrial Welding Supplies of Hattiesburg, LLC was acquired by Airgas, LLC on March 31,
 2012," However, the circuit court failed to comply with the remainder of Rule 23(b)'s
requirements to define the "class claims, issues, or defenses." (Guthrie, D.; CV-17-86; 1l-16-17
Baker, K.)


Wqit v. Elmen,2017 Ark. App. 648 [injunction] The circuit court abused its discretion in
concluding that Elmen had established that irreparable harm would occur in the absence of an


                                                  7
injunction. In both the complaint and the motion for preliminary injunction, Elmen sought an
order barring'Wait from any role in the management of the companies; enjoining Wait from self-
dealing; and a full accounting of all company information and money spent. The circuit court
granted this relief, but went further suspending all salary, distributions, and other payments to
both V/ait and Elmen. A circuit court may not entertain injunctive relief sua sponte in the
absence of pleadings requesting such relief. The circuit court abused its discretion when it
granted sua sponte relief beyond that requested in the pleadings. (Fox, T.; CV-16-836 11-29-17;
Whiteaker, P.)

Barnett v, Cleghorn,2017 Ark. App, 641 [negligence/summary judgment] The evidence
presented to the circuit court demonstrated the existence of a material issue of fact regarding
causation. Summary judgment is not designed for assessing the probative strength of conflicting
proof or expert opinions, Rather, that process is correctly done by the trier of fact after a trial on
the merits. Therefore, the circuit court erred in granting summary judgment. (Williams, C.; CV-
 17-24; I1-29-17; Klappenbach, M.)


Walker v. I4/ilmoe Corp.,2017 Ark.340 [class certifTcation] The class definitions require
potential plaintiffs to have incurred a debt arising out of pawn transactions with National Pawn
Shop. Here, appellee contends that no loans were ever made and, by extension, no one ever
incurred a debt pursuant to pawn transactions with National Pawn Shop. Thus, the circuit court
would be required to determine one of the ultimate issues in the case-whether a debt was
incurred-before it could be determined whether prospective plaintiffs could properly be
included in either of the proposed classes. The definitions of the proposed classes are not based
on objective criteria, The trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying the motion to certify
the classes. (Piazza, C.; CV-17-227;11-30-17; Wynne, R.)


Arch Street Pawn Shop v. Gunn, 2017 Ark.341 [class certification] The class definition
attempts to lasso all who "owe or will incur debts" springing from business with Arch Street.
Given the nature of the legal claims, however, proceeding with class litigation on this basis
would put the cart before the horse. The ultimate legal issue in this case is whether the
transactions Arch Street typically engages in are "loans" that create "debts" for which appellees
"owe" payment as those terms are contemplated in, or controlled by, the Arkansas Constitution's
anti-usury language. Determining whether a particular pawn transaction was a loan and thus
created a debt is the sort of predicate question that would have to be determined by reference to
each potential class member's situation rather than a uniform set of objective criteria. All
customers at Arch Street received similarly phrased pawn tickets. However, some customers
redeemed their pawned items, some surrendered their pledges intending to redeem them but
ultimately did not, and still others pawned items with no intent to redeem them at all. Proposed
class dehnitions posing such administrative difficulties are not suitable for certification. Because
the class as defined is not ascertainable as a threshold matter, the circuit court abused its


                                                   8
discretion by proceeding to a Rule 23 analysis and granting certification. The circuit court erred
in certifying the class. (Griffen, W.; CV-17-I82; l1-30-17; Womack, S.) See also Pawnderosa
Pawn Shop, Inc. v. Conley,2017 Ark.342.


 Desoto Gathering Co. v. Hill,2017 Ark. 326 [unauthorized practice of law] The circuit court
did not err in dismissing DeSoto's appeal from the board of equalization to the circuit court for
lack ofjurisdiction because the appeal was initiated by a nonlawyer. By filing the appeal, the
person engaged in the unauthorized practice of law. The appeals filed on behalf of DeSoto must
be deemed a nullity because they were filed in violation of the prohibition of the unauthorized
practice of law. Because the notices of appeal are a nullity and the deadline for filing an appeal
under Ark. Code Ann. $ 26-27 -318 had lapsed when the amended notices were filed, the
petitions of appeal were a nullity, the county court did not have jurisdiction, and the circuit court
did not have jurisdiction. The circuit court did not err in granting Hill's motion to dismiss.
(Braswell, T.; CV-l 6-990;11-30-17; Baker, K.) See also Desoto v. Hill,2017 Ark.324; USAC
Leasing v. Hill,2017 Ark.329 USAC Leasing v. Hill,2017 Ark.335.



DOMESTIC RELATIONS

Atchley v. Atchley,2017 Ãrk. App, 575 fmotion to dismiss custody case following petitioner's
case in chief] The appellate court found error in the circuit court's granting of Appellee's motion
to dismiss because it did not view the evidence in the proper light. At the conclusion of
Appellant's presentation, the circuit court was not to weigh the evidence or make credibility
determination in ruling on Appellee's motion to dismiss. All the evidence was to be viewed
most favorable to Appellant's petition, giving the proof presented its highest probative value and
taking into account all reasonable inferences deductible therefrom. Because fair-minded people
could have undoubtedly come to differing conclusion on the evidence, it was error to summarily
dismiss Appellant's petition to change custody where a prima facie case of material change in
circumstance was presented. (McCormick, D.; CV-I7-255;11-l-L7; Klappenbach, N.)

Moodyv. Moody,2017 Ark. App.582 [plain language of settlement agreement; equal
division of marital property; burden regarding proof of nonmarital property; failure to
provide evidence to circuit court and failure to provide legal authority at appellate levell
The appellate court found the circuit court did not err in finding Appellant responsible for the
real estate taxes on the martial home that appellee received in the property-settlement agreement.
The parties' temporary order unequivocally ordered Appellant to pay the property taxes, and the
parties' final divorce decree states she would be responsible for the marital residence expenses
she was previously ordered to pay until she vacated the martial home. Because it is clear from
the plain language of the divorce decree that appellant would receive an increased amount of
support for the duration of her stay in the marital home for the express purpose of paying certain
expenses including the real estate taxes, the appellate court found no error. Second, the appellate
court found no error in the circuit court's ruling to equally divide value of the "missing" flatware
following credible witnesses' testimony as to its existence. The appellate court also found no
error in the circuit court equally dividing the lion statues, as the court has the obligation to

                                                  -9
distribute one-half of marital property to each party. Next, the appellate court found error in the
circuit court's failure to include the parties' tractor as martial property. The appellate court
stated that the burden was on the Appellee to establish that the property was his separate
nonmarital property and that the court could not hold that the burden was met; therefore, it
should be included in the division of marital property. Lastly, the appellate court found no error
in the circuit court dismissing the Appellant's contempt motion, as she provided no testimony or
evidence in support of her contempt allegations regarding the wellbeing of the child. The
appellate court recognized that the circuit court did not deny the parties an opportunity to testify
regarding any issues-it simply advised the parties that they could not extend their hearing past
the scheduled time. The appellate court also did not consider any additional arguments raised by
Appellant as she failed to assert any legal authority and failed to provide evidence to the circuit
court in support of certain arguments, (Smith, V.; CV-16-514; ll-1-17; Brown, W.)

Kelly v. Kelly,2017 A1r.. App. 599 finformation to be clarifïed in findings regarding financial
need for alimony; repayment of alimony overages following mandate from appellate court]
The appellate court found error in the circuit court's factual finding that Appellee had established
a need for $10,616.50 per month in support, The support order considered the financial needs of
her three-person household and not only Appellee's personal financial needs. The appellate
court found the circuit court's order should be modified to clarify that the $10,616.50 need is for
Appellee and her children. Appellant did not challenge the $10,616.50 support amount-only
the finding that it was for Appellee's needs only. The appellate court also found error in the
circuit court's finding that it would be inequitable to require Appellee to repay a portion of the
excess alimony payments received, as it was money that Appellee was not entitled. For a period
of 32 months (from the date of the alimony award through the date the circuit court heard the
case on remand following the first appeal), Appellant overpaid Appellee monthly by $6,043,50.
Appellee received 5193,392 overpayments in total. While the appellate court found that
repaying the total overpayments is inequitable, the court found it is not inequitable for Appellee
to repay the 7 months of alimony overage received between the appellate opinion and the circuit
court's new order in response to the mandate. The appellate court ordered repayment of the
overage by giving Appellant a $1,000,00 per month credit until repaid in full. (Taylor, J.; CV-17-
279; ll-8-17; Glover, D.)

Tipton v. Tipton,2017 Ark. App. 601 funequal distribution of marital property and factors
that must be considered] The appellate court found error in the circuit court's unequal division
of marital property without appropriate consideration of the factors established in Ark. Code
Ann. 9- 12-315. Although the circuit court's ruling from the bench seemed to indicate that the
court found that the real estate was not marital property, the written order states it was making an
unequal distribution of property and the written order controls over the circuit court's oral
pronouncement, Therefore, the circuit court erred when the written Order did consider or recite
the factors, basis, and reasons for not dividing the marital property equally between the parties.
(Compton, C.; CV-17-266; 11-8-17; V/hiteaker, P.)

Stahl v. Smith,2017 Ark. App. 603 forder of protection and defïnition of domestic abuse] The
appellate court found error in the circuit court's entering a final order ofprotection based on a
finding that Appellant had committed domestic abuse against the parties' child. A petition for
order of protection shall allege, among other things, the existence of domestic abuse. Because


                                                 10-
there is no evidence on the record of harm or injury by Appellant, the circuit court must have
relied on the second portion of the domestic abuse definition, i,e. that Appellant inflicted fear of
imminent physical harm. The only evidence to arguably support such a finding was that
Appellant failed to protect the child from alleged abuse, that Appellant thought the child was
lying about the abuse, that Appellant became aggressive and angry when speaking to the child
about the allegations, and that Appellant continued to allow the child around the alleged abuser.
The appellate court found that this evidence, even if assuming all of Appellee's testimony is true,
is insufficient to support the domestic abuse filing. (Duncan, X.; CV-l7-415;11-8-17; Vaught,
L.)

Henderson v. Henderson,2077 Ark, App.620 fchild support retroactive to child's birth; child
support and visitation are separate issues] The appellate court found error in the circuit court
failing to award child support anearages back to the date that Appellee stopped providing
voluntary support for his minor child. While the circuit court awarded retroactive child support
only back to the date that the petition to establish paternity was filed, the appellate courts
repeatedly have upheld a circuit court's order awarding retroactive child support from the date of
the child's birth, The appellate court explained that a parent has a legal duty to support his
minor child, regardless of the existence of a support order, and child support is an obligation
owed to the child, not the parents. In addition, Appellee never disputed his paternity. The
appellate court also found error in the circuit court's abating Appellee's child support obligation
for the two years that Appellant had taken the child to Great Britain. The appellate court states
that child support obligations and visitation are completely separate issues, When the custodial
spouse interferes with visitation, the remedy is to seek enforcement of visitation- not to withhold
.hild rrpport. Child support is an obligation owed to the child independent of the noncustodial
parent's relationship or visitation with the child. (Smith, V.; CV-17-257; Il-15-17; Glover, D.)

Grindstaff v. Strickland and minor children,2017 Ark. App. 634 fmaterial change of
circumstance; best interest; changing custody before using contempt powers] The appellate
court found that there was sufficient evidence for the circuit court to have found a material
change of circumstance to warrant a modification of custody. The circuit court noted the
following concerns: Appellant's rigid imposition of visitation exchange times, her failure to list
Appellee as a parent on school forms, her failure to follow their agreement to jointly decide
children's issues, her suggestion for Appellee to give up his parental rights, and her "miserable
job" of communicating with Appellee. The appellate court also rejected Appellant's argument
that, because there was no testimony that the children were aware of Appellee's poor choices, the
 circuit court erred in finding that it was in the best interest of the children to modify custody'
The appellate court recognized that once the noncustodial parent has established a material
 change in circumstances, the court itself is to weight the best interest of the child, and the circuit
 court did not clearly err in its best-interest analysis. Lastly, the appellate court found no error in
the circuit court's choosing not to use its power to hold Appellant in contempt as a step
preceding the change of custody, There is no requirement to do so. The attorney ad litem and
õircuit court were concerned about the effect that alienation and failure to communicate would
 have on Appellee's relationship with the children, The ad litem, noting Appellant's repeated
 behavior and violation of court orders, specifically recommended it was in the children's best
 interest that the court change custody rather than holding her in contempt. (Schrantz, D.; CV-17-
 333; 1I-29-17; Gruber, R.)

                                                  -t1.-
,Ienkins v. Jenkins,2017 Ark. App. 642 falimony modification and enforcement] The appellate
court found no error in the circuit court's findings of facts regarding Appellant's income and
found no error in the circuit court's finding that Appellant had failed to prove that his income
had decreased. The parties' 2010 property settlement agreement stated Appellant would pay
Appellee $3,000 per month in alimony until Appellant's "income is reduced". The agreement
did not recite what his was income was in 2010. Appellant failed to pay any alimony beginning
in January 2016, and he claimed his income had decreased. The appellate court found that
Appellant's 2010 1 099 was the best evidence of Appellant's income that year, and the only
remaining evidence on income was the 2015 1099, which showed a higher income than that in
2010. It was Appellant's burden to establish that there was a decrease in his income, and he
failed to present any evidence regarding his year-to-date income in2016. The appellate court
also found no error in the circuit court ordering Appellant to pay an additional $1,000 per month
towards his alimony arrearage. Appellant argued, but failed to explain, how the circuit court's
enforcing the written contractual agreement constituted a modification of that agreement. The
circuit court had the power to construe, clarify, and enforce the agreement, and the circuit court
did not change the terms of the alimony agreement in any way. The additional $1,000 was
merely a method of enforcing payment. (Reif, M.; CV-17-83; 1l-29-17: Klappenbach, N.)

James v. Walchli,2017 Ark. App. 645 [child support in joint custody; attorney's fee finding]
The appellate court found error in the circuit court's failure to establish an award of child support
in Appellant's favor, The parties each have custody of one minor child, Appellant's W-2 income
reflected an income of $37,000, and an expert witness testihed that Appellee's income was
between $300,000-$500,000 for the 2-year period proceeding. Because the parties each have
custody of one child, and since the circuit court found no clear figure on Appellee's income, the
circuit court ordered no child support. The appellate court found error and remanded the matter
for further proceedings. The appellate court directed the circuit court to follow Administrative
Order No, l0(c) addressing calculation of support for self-employed payors, specifically the
procedure for determining child support by using the net-worth method. The appellate court
found no error in the circuit court's award of attorney's fees in favor of Appellee, as Appellant
willfully violated the order regarding the children's passport. The sanction for her disregard was
appropriate, despite the disparity of the parties' incomes. Note: Appellant did not challenge the
finding of contempt which resulted in the award of attorney's fees. (Cox, J,; CV-17-I24;1I-29-
17; Glover, D.)

Cooper v. Kallauarf,20IT Ark.331 frelocation- Hollandsworth vs. Singletary] The appellate
court found error in the circuit court's application of Hollandsworth v. Knyzewsfri in Appellee's
request to relocate. In Hollandsworth, the Court announced a presumption in favor of relation
for custodial parents with sole or primary custody, with the noncustodial parent having the
burden to rebut this presumption. In Singletary,the Court explained that the Hollandsworth
presumption does not apply when the parents share joint custody of a child. The proper analysis
for a change-in-custody request due to the relocation of one parent in a joint-custody situation is
the same as that when relocation is not involved; the court must first determine whether a
material change in circumstances has transpired since the divorce decree and then whether the
change in custody is in the best interest of the child. In this case, just as in Singletary, the decree
states that the parties are to share joint legal custody but that appellee is the primary physical
custodian. The decree then awards Appellant nearly equal time with the minor child. Because


                                                  -1.2-
the language in the decree is unclear whether the parties had joint custody such that the
Singletary analysis should apply, the circuit court was correct in reviewing the parties'
subsequent statements and conduct. The circuit court found that Appellant had custody 42.9
percent of the time, and he had some form of contact with the child at least 60 percent of the
days in the year. Despite these findings, the circuit court concluded that Appellee was the
primary custody and entitled to a presumption in favor of relocation based on the fact that the
parties' custodial arrangement was not 50/50. The appellate court disagreed and clarified that
 the Hollandsworth presumption should be applied only when the parent seeking to relocate is not
just labeled the "primary" custodian but also spends significantly more time with the child than
the other parent. The appellate court did not impose a percentage of time that a parent must
 spend with the child for the Singletøry analysis to apply. The appellate court then concluded that
the analysis set forth in Singletarl governs Appellee's relocation petition and remanded for the
 circuit court to apply this analysis to the facts of this case. (Smith, V.; CV-l7-298;11-30-17;
 Goodson, C.)


PROBATE

Childress v. Braden,2017 Ark. App. 569 fconsent not required in stepparent adoption;
definition of "failed significantly" within the consent statute; best interest of childl The
appellate court found no error in the circuit court's hnding that Appellant's consent to adoption
was not required because she failed significantly without justifiable cause to provide for the care
and support of her child for a period of at least one year. Appellant argued that her failure to pay
child support was justified because she had no knowledge of the order requiring her to pay child
support, but the circuit court specifically discredited her testimony regarding this. Also, the
circuit court found that Appellants gifts to the child did not constitute support in a meaningful
degree. "Failed significantly" within the statute does not mean "failed totally"; it only means
that the failure must be signif,rcant, meaningful, or important. Lastly, the appellate court found
no error in the circuit court's ruling that the adoption was in the child's best interest, as the
mother had not seen the child in three years which was Y, of the child's life, the evidence showed
the maternal grandparents could continue their relationship with the child after the adoption, and
the stepmother had a strong relationship with the child. (McCormick, D.; CY-17-67;ll-I-17;
Abramson, R.)

Dawson v. Dawson,2017 Ark. App. 584 freopening estate following 4l(b) dismissal] The
appellate court found no error in the circuit court's finding that it did not have jurisdiction to
reopen the estate following a al @) dismissal. Because Appellant did not appeal the 201 1
dismissal of the case nor file a motion to set aside or vacate the dismissal, the appellate court
found it is now too late to argue that the circuit court erred in dismissing the case in 20IL
Furthermore, while Ark. Code Ann. 28-53-119 allows the circuit court to reopen an estate in
certain circumstances, the statute only authorizes a reopen when the estate "has been settled and
the personal representative discharged". Because the estate was dismissed for failure of the
executrix to administer the estate, it was not settled and the personal representative was not
discharged. Therefore, this statute does not apply, (Bell, K.; CV-16-992; 11-8-17; Gruber, R.)




                                                -13-
In the Matter of the Estate of Tom Alexander Deceased, and David Neal, et al. v. Sparks
Regional Medical Center,2017 Ark. App, 588 fdecedent's intent when beneficiary name
misnomer; entity changes effect on devise; cy pres applied to charitable bequest; decedent's
charitable intent; cy pres beneficiary] Appellants, the natural heirs of decedent, appealed the
circuit court's decision to grant the decedent's estate to Sparks Regional Medical Center
(SRMC). The appellate court found error in the circuit court's finding that SRMC is the same
entity as Sparks Memorial Hospital (SMH), but the appellate court found no eÍror in the other
points on appeal. First, the appellate court found no error in the circuit court's f,rnding that the
decedent intended to leave his estate to the specific legal entity, SMH. The decedent's use of the
name "sparks Hospital" rather than "sparks Memorial Hospital" could have been a simple
misnomer, and the circuit court successfully effectuated the intent of the testator to devise his
estate to the entity that owned and operated Sparks Hospital, i.e. SMH. Second, the appellate
court found that SRMC is not the same entity as the Sparks Hospital named in the will, not does
SRMC have the same function as SMH, The changes that took place are transformative and
profound, including SRMC no longer identifies charity care as a purpose, no longer operates as a
hospital, and does not even provide direct medical care. Because SRMC is not the same entity as
SMH and does not serve the same puposes, the decedent's devise fails and the appellate court
must address the issues regarding cy pres. Third, the appellate court found no error in the circuit
court's finding that cy pres may be applied to charitable bequests. The equitable doctrine of cy
pres in the principle that equity will, when a charitable originally or later becomes impossible or
impracticable of fulfillment, substitute another charitable object which is believed to approach
the original purpose as closely as possible. Although the general assembly codified cy pres as it
relates to charitable trusts, there is no indication that the legislature sought to end the application
 of cy pres to bequests and the Arkansas Supreme Court acknowledges that cy pres may be
 applied to devises and trusts alike. Fourth, the appellate court found no error in the circuit
 court's finding that the decedent had charitable intent and that the decedent's underlying
 charitable intent of his bequest was to promote public health, which is an enumerated statutory
 charitable purpose. Fifth, although disagreeing with the circuit court that SRMC is not the same
 entity as SMH, the appellate court found SRMC is the appropriate cy pres beneficiary. The
 circuit court fashioned a use for the funds as near to the decedent's intent as possible under the
 circumstances, and the appellate court found no erïor. (Spears, J,; CV-16-805; 11-8-17; Virden,
B)
Clarkv. Clark,2017 Ark. App.612 [due process rights in adoption] The appellate court found
that the biological parents/Appellants' due process rights were violated for failure to receive
notice of the adoption petition filed by the grandparents/guardians. Even though more than one
year had elapsed since entry of the adoption decree, the appellate court found there was no
evidence that the Appellants received any notice of the adoption proceeding before entry of the
decree. In Mayberuy v. Flowers,347 Ark.476,the Arkansas Supreme Court found that the one
year statute of limitations (to question a decree of adoption for failure to give the required notice)
did not bar a father's motion to set aside an adoption when the father received no notice of the
adoption petition until after the entry of adoption, In contrast, the Supreme Court has also held
that because a mother received actual notice of the pending adoption, her due process rights were
not violated even if the evidence revealed defects in the service of process. Due process requires
notice reasonably calculated to apprise parties of the pendency of the adoption action and to
afford them an opportunity to respond. The appellate court found that the dependency neglect


                                                   1.4-
action did not give the Appellants notice reasonably calculated to apprise them of the pending
adoption and afford them an opportunity to respond, (Choate, S.; CV-17-326;1I-15-I7;
Abramson, R.)


JUVENILE

Connors v. Ark. Dep't of Human Servs.,2017 Ark. App. 579 ITPR -suffTciency of the
evidence; adoptabilityl Termination order was appealed on the basis that there was insufficient
evidence that termination was in the child's best interest. Appellant father, who was incarcerated
during the pendency of the case, argued that the trial court erred in terminating his rights because
there was insufficient evidence that the child was adoptable due to the child's sexual aggression,
and there was a relative willing to take custody of the child. The appellate court aff,trmed,
explaining that the trial court considered evidence of adoptability, including the case worker's
testimony concerning sexual aggression. Moreover, the court found that sexual aggression was
not an issue because the child was not sexually aggressive. With regard to relative placement, the
relative that Appellant claimed was interested in placement did not contact DHS as a potential
placement until after the child had been in DHS custody for over twenty months and did not
testify at the termination hearing. Termination was affirmed. (James, P., JV-15-725; November
1,2017; Vaught, L,)

Jacobs v. Ark. Dep't of Humøn Servs.,2017 Ark. App. 586 [TPR-sufficiency of evidence of
potential harml Order terminating parental rights was afftrmed where mother was arrested on
four separate occasions throughout pendency of the DN case, completed two in-patient drug-
treatment programs but failed to demonstrate long-term sobriety, and the children were out of the
mother's custody for twenty months. The appellant mother argued that there was insufficient
evidence that termination was in the children's best interest because there was insufficient proof
that the children would be subjected to potential harm if returned to her. The appellate court
disagreed, noting that this was a case where the child's need for permanency and stability
overrides a parent's request for additional time to improve circumstances. (Zuerker, L.; JV-15-
299;November 8, 2017;' Abramson, R.)

Knightv.Ark. Dep'to.f HumanServs.,2}l7 Ark.App.602 [TPR-sufficiencyof evidenceof
potential harm] Child was removed after mother was arrested for possession of
methamphetamine, drug paraphernalia, and a pipe bomb, all while the child was present. The
trial court found grounds for termination based on twelve months failure to remedy and
subsequent other factors. On appeal, the appellant mother argued that there was insufficient
evidence of potential harm to the children if they were returned to her custody. The appellate
court disagreed, finding that there was sufficient evidence of potential harm because the mother's
continued drug use demonstrates potential harm. Moteover, potential harm includes the harm a
child suffers from lack of stability. Here, the mother never once provided a clean drug screen

                                                 15-
during the case and did not demonstrate stability. Termination was affirmed. (Richardson, M.;
JV- 16- 1 ; November 8,2017; Whiteaker, P.)


Brinkleyv.Ark. Dep'tof HumanServs.,2017 Ark.App.625 [TPR-sufficiencyof the
evidencel Three young children were removed from mother after she left them locked out of
their home and unsupervised for two hours while she was across town. The father of the children
was incarcerated at the time of removal and remained incarcerated throughout the case. Efforts to
reunify were unsuccessful and a termination hearing was ultimately held. The mother's rights
were terminated because the children had remained out of the home for twelve months and the
mother had failed to remedy the situation that led to the removal and also on the basis of factors
that arose subsequent to the filing of the case, including the mother being incarcerated on
seventeen separate occasions during the case and continued persistent alcohol abuse. The father's
rights were terminated on the grounds of abandonment. The appellate court affirmed the
mother's termination, finding no error in the termination based on subsequent factors. However,
the father's termination on the ground of abandonment was reversed, There was no proof that the
father had been served the emergency order of custody or any subsequent orders, and DHS
offered no assistance, guidance, and only minimal contact concerning what the father needed to
do to comply with the case plan, which he also never received. The DHS caseworker testified
that DHS had no contact with the father and offered no services throughout the case.
Additionally, the father was not appointed an attorney until immediately before the termination
hearing. The father testified that he was incarcerated throughout the proceedings, that he did not
abandon his children, and he was not included by DHS as a participant in the case although they
knew his location. The appellate court found that the father's conduct under these circumstances
does not rise to the level of abandonment under a clear-and-convincing standard, and termination
as to the father was reversed. (Richardson, M.; JV-l5-173;November 1.5,2017; Hixson, K')


Burleson v. Ark. Dep't of Human Servs.,2017 Ark. App. 616 [TPR-sufficiency of the
evidence] Mother appealed order terminating her parental rights. Children were removed after
the family was involved with DHS in a protective services case, the mother was arrested for
failing to attend a court hearing regarding one of the children's school absences, and a law
enforcement offrcer found the front door of the home open one morning and the home in a state
of squalor, The mother had mental health issues and a history of illegal drug use and was ordered
to submit to a psychological evaluation and a drug-and-alcohol assessment. During the case, the
mother attempted suicide on three separate occasions, continued failing drug tests, visited the
children infrequently, and waited until a month before the termination hearing to obtain housing
and complete her psychological and drug assessments, The trial court terminated the mother's
rights on three separate grounds, and the appellate court affirmed. The court found that there
were grounds for termination based on factors that arose subsequent to the removal of the
children where the mother failed to comply with the case plan for almost ayear. Under the



                                                -1.6-
circumstances, termination was in the children's best interest in order to provide them stability
and permanency. (Sullivan, T.; JY-16-l;November 15,2017; Harrison, B')


Hortonv. Ark. Dep't of Human Servs.,2017 Ark. App. 633 [TPR-sufficiency of the evidence]
Termination order was entered after mother failed to remedy the circumstances that caused
removal. The mother was low functioning and the infant was removed due to neglect after being
hospitalized and diagnosed with failure to thrive. There was evidence that the mother did not
properly mix the baby's formula, and that the mother's learning disabilities, for which she
received SSI benefits, affected her ability to read and write and her ability to parent. Evidence
from multiple sources indicated that the mother needed assistance from another competent adult
in order to parent her child, and the mother testified that she could take care of her child with
help from others. The maternal grandmother provided some assistance but was not always
reliable and there were concerns about her being consistently available to provide the necessary
support. Fourteen months into the case, the mother filed a motion requesting accommodations
under the ADA due to her disability. The trial court denied the motion, finding it untimely, and
the appellate court found that the order denying the motion was not properly designated in the
notice of appeal and noted in a footnote that the court's opinion does not address the issue of
whether the ADA applies as a defense in a termination proceeding. Termination was affrrmed
because the circumstances that led to removal had not been remedied, as the mother could not
demonstrate after fifteen months of service that she could safely parent her child. (Sullivan, T.;
JV-1 5-39; November 15, 2017 ; Brown, W.)


Hudsonv. Ark. Dep't of Human Servs.,2017 Ark. Ãpp.629 [TPR-sufficiency of the evidence;
potential harml Mother appealed termination of her rights, arguing that there was insufficient
evidence that termination was in the child's best interest because it was not proven that the child
was at risk of potential harm if custody were returned, The court aff,trmed termination, finding
that the undisputed evidence that the mother sexually abused the child was suff,tcient evidence of
potential harm. A parent's past behavior may be viewed as a predictor of potential harm and
living in uncertainty, concerning permanency, is potentially harmful to children. (Jackson, S.;
JV-1 6-34; November | 5, 2017; Murphy, M.)


Johnston v, Ark. Dep't of Human Servs., 2017 Ark. App. 6 i 5 [Permanency Planning] After a
permanency planning hearing twelve months into the case, the trial court found that that the
mother had not made substantial and measurable progress and a permanency planning order was
entered changing the goal of case to APPLA for the seventeen-year-old, to a permanent
guardianship for the fourteen-year-old, and to permanent custody with grandparents for the five-
year-old. On appeal, the appellate court recognized that the case was close on the merits but
affirmed the trial court. The problem that brought the children into care was inadequate housing
after the mother was arrested and DHS became involved with the family. In addition to obtaining
stable housing and employment, the mother was also ordered to undergo a drug-and-alcohol


                                                 -17-
assessment, complete a drug-treatment program, under a psychological evaluation, and submit to
counseling. By the time of the permanency planning hearing, the mother had had at least five
different living arrangements, but she had completed her drug-and-alcohol assessment and drug
treatment, she had completed her psychological evaluation and followed the recommendations,
she had completed parenting classes and visited the children, The case worker's concern focused
on the fact that the mother had been in her current home only a month, had had several
temporary living arrangements that were inappropriate for children, did not have employment,
and had gotten married a few days prior to the hearing to a man that the case worker had not had
the opportunity to background check, and who was later determined to be a felon, Ultimately, the
court found that because the problem that caused the removal of the children was inadequate and
unstable housing and this problem had not been remedied, the mother had not made sufficient
and measurable progress and the goal change was appropriate. Under these circumstances, the
appellate court found no clear error and affirmed the permanency planning order. (Elmore, B.;
JY -1,6-17 ;November 15, 2017 ; Harrison, B.)


Meyers v. Ark. Dep't of Human Servs.,2017 Ark. App. 614 [Adjudication; Termination of
Reunification Services; Change of Custodyl Two-year-old child whose body covered in
cockroach bites was removed from cockroach-infested home which was cluttered with dirty
dishes, clothes, and dog feces. The mother from whom custody was removed reported that she
suffered from schizophrenia, ADHD, bipolar disorder, and a "split personality" for which she did
not take medication or receive treatment, The mother further reported that she had older children
who had been removed from her custody, two who were placed in their father's custody after the
mother attempted to kill him and was jailed for breaking the tibia of one child, and another child
that had been placed for adoption due to a birth defect. The father of the two-year-old, who lived
in Tennessee, appeared at the adjudication hearing and requested that custody be placed with
him. He testified that he was gainfully employed, that he had an approved home study from
Tennessee, that he had passed all background checks, and that he had previously been awarded
joint-custody of the child along with the mother. The trial court thereafter entered an order
terminating reunification services, changing custody to the father, and closing the case, The
 mother appealed, arguing that Ark. Code Ann. ç 9-27-365 provides thatamotion for no
 reunification services be provided to all parties in writing at least twenty days prior to a hearing
 and the failure to provide notice violated her constitutional rights. The appellate court agreed that
 terminating reunification services without written notice to the mother constituted reversible
 error and also found that a change of custody was improper where only a dependency-neglect
 petition had been filed. (Talley, D.i JV-17-1 1; November 15, 2017; Gladwin, R')

Rickman v, Ark. Dep't of Human Servs.,2017 Ark. App. 610 [Termination of Reunification
Services; Aggravated Circumstancesl After years of DHS working with the mother, an order
terminating reunification services was entered based on aggravated circumstances. The child was
first removed from the home due to the mother's testing positive for drugs and using prescription


                                                  18-
drugs that were not prescribed to her. Numerous issues arose during the case, including the
mother's illegal drug use, signif,rcant issues with clutter and trash in the home, the mother's
romantic relationship with a man that was abusive, excessive alcohol use, and mental health
issues. After more than two years of services, DHS f,rled a motion to terminate reunification
services, arguing that there was little likelihood that services to the mother would result in a
successful reunification, The trial court agreed, and on appeal, the appellate court affirmed. The
appellate court explained that it gave due regard to the credibility findings of the trial court and
great weight to the trial court's personal observations, and that there numerous examples of
instability in the mother's life demonstrating little likelihood of successful reunification.
(V/ilson, R.; JV-14-110;November 15, 2017 Gruber, R.)

l4talker v. Ark. Dep't of Human Servs.,2017 Ark. App.627 [Adjudication-efforts to prevent
removall Appeal was taken from entry of adjudication and disposition order. The department
had been involved with the family in a protective services cases and had provided services
including parenting classes and a bus pass to prevent removal of the children. However, after the
mother admitted marijuana and cocaine use, a dependency-neglect petition was filed and the
children were temoved from the home. On appeal, the mother argued that the department was
required to prove that reasonable efforts had been made to prevent removal of the children
because the emergency exception provided in Ark. Code Ann. ç 9-27-327(a)(2) did not apply
because the department was working with the family in a protective services case at the time of
removal. DHS conceded that the emergency exception did not apply but argued that under $ 9-
27-335(e)(2)(C), it was permitted to remove the children without reasonable efforts to prevent
removal in order to protect the juvenile's health and safety. The appellate court declined to
consider arguments concerning the disposition part of the ordet, because under Arkansas
Supreme Court Rule 6-9(aXlXB), a disposition order is appealable only with a 54(b) certificate
under Arkansas Rule of Civil Procedure 54(b), which was lacking here. (Zimmerman, S.; JV-17-
186;November 15,2017; Hixson, K,)

Solee v. Ark. Dep't of Human Servs.,2017 Ãrk. App. 640 [TPR-sufficiency of the evidence]
Termination order was entered terminating rights to five of appellant mother's six children, The
children were removed due to educational neglect and the mother's drug use. During the case, it
was discovered that three of the children had serious behavior problems that required additional
support staff to assist with transportation of the children and required their visits to be separate
from the other three children. One child had been in several placements, was destructive, and
was considered a treatment failure, while another child was suspended from school. After the
mother failed to remedy the issues that led to removal, the mother's rights were terminated for all
but one child who was to be placed in his father's custody. The mother appealed, arguing that
there was not sufficient evidence presented that the children are adoptable. The appellate court
affirmed, explaining that the trial court is not required to find that the children are adoptable by
clear and convincing evidence. Rather, it must be shown that the trial court considered the factor


                                                 -19-
of adoptability, and the case worker's testimony that the children are potentially adoptable
demonstrated that the trial court considered the factor. There are no "magic words" or "specific
quantum" of evidence required to prove adoptability. (James, P.; JY-16-295; November 29,
2017; Gladwin, R.)



Cases in which the Court of Appeals affrrmed No-Merit TPR and Motion to Withdraw Granted


Beaty v. Ark. Dep't of Humøn Servs.,2}I7 Ark. App. 62I (Zimmerman, S.; JY-I6-546:
November 15,2017; Glover, D.)

Stampley v. Ark. Dep't of Human Servs.,2017 Ark. App.628 (James, P.; JV-l6-106;November
15,201.7; Murphy, M.)


Snow v. Ark. Dep't of Human Servs ,, 2017 Ark. App. 654 (Layton, D.; JV- 16-3 1 ; November 29,
2017; Brown, Vy',)


L,J. v. State,2017 Ark. App. 607 [Possession of controlled substance with intent to deliver-
sufficiency of the evidencel Seventeen-year-old was charged as a juvenile with the crimes of
possession of a controlled substance with intent to deliver and possession of drug paraphernalia
 after atraffic stop revealed Xanax pills, methamphetamine, and syringes, and glass pipe in the
console of the car she was driving. Appellant argues on appeal that there was insufhcient
evidence for each crime. The Arkansas Rules of Criminal Procedure apply in juvenile-
delinquency proceedings, and under Rule 33.1(b), a motion to dismiss must be made at the close
of the prosecution's evidence and renewed at the close of all the evidence in order to challenge
the suffrciency of the evidence on appeal. Here, the appellant failed to renew her motion to
dismiss at the close of all the evidence, thus waived the argument on appeal. But the appellate
court indicated that even if the appellant had preserved the argument for appeal, the evidence
was sufficient, because as the driver and owner of the car who admitted to smoking marijuana,
her knowledge of the contraband could have been inferred under the circumstances. (Warren, J.;
JY -I 6-945; November 8, 2017 ; Murphy, M.)


Hubbard v. State,2017 Ark. App. 636 [Motion to transfer to Juvenile Court] The trial court's
 denial of a motion to transfer a criminal case to juvenile court will not be reversed unless it is
 clearly effoneous, In this case, the defendant had been previously involved in juvenile court, had
been under the supervision of a probation officer, and had participated in the Arkansas Dream
 Center, but he continued to engage in criminal activity. The trial court's denial of the motion to
transfer was not clearly erroneous where it was unlikely the defendant would be rehabilitated in
juvenile court, (Wright, H,; CR-16-3702; November 29,2017 Abramson, R.)



                                                -20-
DISTRICT COURT

Trice v. City of Pine Blffi2017 Ark. App. 638 [District Court Appeat] [Ex Post Facto
Violationl [Procedural Due Process]. Appellant was convicted of a city ordinance violation for
failure to abate a nuisance in district court. An appeal to circuit court followed and a bench trial
took place. Testimony was heard from various officials concerning city council procedures and
appeal processes to the Code Enforcement Board of Zoning Adjustments and Appeal, The
appellant testified that the Board heard his appeal, but explained that there was no chance to
appeal to the city planning commission. A motion to dismiss the case was denied. The circuit
court entered an order finding appellant guilty of failure to abate a nuisance. On argument to the
Court of Appeals, appellant contends that the event giving rise to the cause of action, the collapse
of the building, happened two months before the ordinance was amended so an ex post facto
violation occurred, The Court of Appeals stated that the citation for the failure to abate is the
event giving rise to the cause of action and because it occurred months after the collapse there is
no constitutional violation. Also affrrmed was the contention the Historic Commission properly
had jurisdiction because appellant cited no authority superseding a statute which gives a city
authority to order removal of unsafe buildings. Another contention of appellant was affirmed as
it was not demonstrated how the Inspection and Zoning Office's refusal to issue a repair permit
is a violation of procedural due process. (Deruris, J.; CR-17-109; 1112912017; Virden, B.)




                                                -21.-
