 iTutorGroup to Pay $365,000 to Settle EEOC Discriminatory Hiring Suit | U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here’s how you know Here’s how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock A locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Menu Header Navigation Online Filing Public Portal Attorney E-file Locations Operating Status Languages English Español (Spanish) Resources in Other Languages عربي (Arabic) 简体中文 (Chinese, Simplified) 繁體中文 - Chinese (Traditional) Kreyòl Ayisyen (Haitian Creole) 한국어 (Korean) Русском (Russian) Português (Portuguese) Tagalog (Tagalog) ไทย (Thai) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) فارسی (Persian. Farsi) پښتو (Pashto) Toggle Search Form Any of these words (optional) Search About EEOC About EEOC Overview The Commission and The General Counsel Meetings of the Commission Commission Votes EEOC History News and Information Newsroom What You Should Know Legislative Affairs Publications Outreach and Education FOIA Laws and Enforcement EEOC Legal Resources Mediation Litigation Systemic Enforcement Commissioner Charges Directed Investigations Programs and Performance Budget and Performance Initiatives Interagency Programs State and Local Programs Task Forces Tribal Programs Data and Analytics Overview Data Governance EEO Data Collections Data and Statistics Data Tools and Products No FEAR Act Data Inside EEOC Careers Office for Civil Rights Doing Business with EEOC AI Governance Privacy Office of Inspector General Employees & Job Applicants Employees & Applicants Overview Coverage Timeliness Prohibited Practices Filing a Charge of Discrimination Filing a Charge How to File After You File a Charge Confidentiality Mediation Remedies Existing Charges Filing a Lawsuit Discrimination by Type Age Disability Equal Pay Genetic Information Harassment National Origin Discrimination Pregnancy Discrimination Race/Color Discrimination Religious Discrimination Retaliation Sex Sexual Harassment Employers / Small Business Employers / Small Business Overview Coverage After a Charge is Filed Resolving a Charge Commissioner Charges Directed Investigations Remedies Small Business Resource Center Small Business Home Small Business Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Tips for Small Businesses Making an Employment Decision? EEOC Resources Small Business Assistance Small Business Fact Sheet Small Business Videos EEOC Glossary Contact Us Discrimination by Type Age Disability Equal Pay Genetic Information Harassment National Origin Pregnancy Race/Color Religion Retaliation Sex Sexual Harassment Prohibited Practices Recordkeeping EEO Data Collections "Know Your Rights" Poster Training Other Employment Issues Federal Sector Federal Agencies Overview Federal EEO Coordination Federal Agency EEO Directors EEOC Legal Resources Management Directives & Federal Sector Guidance Federal Training & Outreach Resources Federal Employees & Job Applicants Overview Federal Complaint Process Federal Sector Alternative Dispute Resolution Prohibited Practices Resources Contact Us Contact EEOC Find Your Nearest Office Office Operating Status How to File a Charge Public Portal Home Newsroom iTutorGroup to Pay $365,000 to Settle EEOC Discriminatory Hiring Suit Press Release 09-11-2023 iTutorGroup to Pay $365,000 to Settle EEOC Discriminatory Hiring Suit Settles Federal Charges Tutoring Provider Programmed its Online Software to Automatically Reject More Than 200 Older Applicants NEW YORK – iTutorGroup, three integrated companies providing English-language tutoring services to students in China, will pay $365,000 and furnish other relief to settle an employment discrimination lawsuit filed by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the federal agency announced today. iTutorGroup, composed of iTutorGroup, Inc.; Shanghai Ping’An Intelligent Education Technology Co., Ltd.; and Tutor Group Limited hired tutors based in the United States to provide online tutoring from their homes or other remote locations. According to the EEOC’s lawsuit, iTutorGroup programmed their tutor application software to automatically reject female applicants aged 55 or older and male applicants aged 60 or older. iTutorGroup rejected more than 200 qualified applicants based in the United States because of their age. iTutorGroup’s alleged conduct violates the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA), which prohibits employers from discriminating based on age. The EEOC filed suit (EEOC v. iTutorGroup, Inc., et al., Civil Action No. 1:22-cv-02565) after first attempting to reach a pre-litigation settlement through its conciliation process. “Prohibitions on age and other types of discrimination do not stop at the border,” said Trial Attorney Daniel Seltzer. “Even companies doing business abroad will face serious consequences if they discriminate against U.S-based employees.” “Where, as alleged here, companies closely control the way fully remote workers perform their jobs, those workers are employees protected by federal anti-discrimination laws,” said Jeffrey Burstein, regional attorney for the EEOC’s New York District Office. “The EEOC will continue to enforce those protections for all covered employees.” The decree settling the suit provides $365,000 to be distributed to applicants who were automatically rejected due to age. Although iTutorGroup has ceased hiring tutors in the United States, the decree also provides for significant non-monetary relief designed to prevent discrimination should iTutorGroup ever resume its U.S. operations. That relief includes extensive and continuing training for those involved in hiring tutors, issuance of a robust new anti-discrimination policy, and strong injunctions against discriminatory hiring based on age or sex and requesting applicants’ birth dates. The EEOC will monitor iTutorGroup’s compliance with these obligations for at least the next five years or longer if iTutorGroup resumes hiring tutors in the United States, and if iTutorGroup does resume its U.S. operations, it must notify and interview those applicants allegedly rejected because of age. “Everyone loses when employers engage in age discrimination,” said Timothy Riera, the acting director of the EEOC’s New York District. “Hundreds of applicants lost out on employment during a difficult time for job seekers, and iTutorGroup’s students lost the opportunity to learn English from highly qualified and experienced tutors.” For more information on age discrimination, please visit https://www.eeoc.gov/age-discrimination . The EEOC’s New York District Office is responsible for addressing discrimination charges and conducting agency litigation in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, northern New Jersey, Rhode Island and Vermont. The EEOC advances opportunity in the workplace by enforcing federal laws prohibiting employ­ment discrimination. More information is available at www.eeoc.gov . Stay connected with the latest EEOC news by subscribing to our email updates . Recent Press Releases from the New York District Office Novadoz Pharmaceuticals to Pay $116,666 to Resolve EEOC Charge Alleging National Origin and Other Employment Discrimination EEOC Sues Optima Care Fountains for Disability Discrimination Option Care to Pay $50,000 in EEOC Pregnancy Discrimination Lawsuit Recent Press Releases on the Subject of Age EEOC Sues Scheels All Sports for Age Discrimination EEOC Sues Trancasa USA for Age Discrimination Lely North America, Inc. to Pay $65,000 to Resolve EEOC Age and Sex Discrimination Investigation Return to top Footer Navigation Employees & Applicants How to file a charge of employment discrimination Find an EEOC office Learn about employees' rights and responsibilities under EEO law Employers / Small Business Find help and resources for small businesses Get training and technical assistance Download publications Learn about employers' rights and responsibilities under EEO law Federal Agencies How to file a complaint of employment discrimination against a federal agency Request a hearing with an administrative judge Request an appeal with EEOC Learn about EEO law in the Federal Government About EEOC The EEOC The Commissioners and the General Counsel Meetings of the Commission Laws, Regulations, Guidance, and MOUs Budget and Performance Statistics FOIA Privacy Policy Disclaimer Accessibility Office of Inspector General USA.gov EEOC Headquarters 131 M Street, NE Washington, DC 20507 1-800-669-6820 (TTY) 1-844-234-5122 (ASL Video Phone) Questions? Call 1-800-669-4000 For Deaf/Hard of Hearing callers: 1-800-669-6820 (TTY) 1-844-234-5122 (ASL Video Phone) info@eeoc.gov Find your nearest EEOC office Connect With Us 