     Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW    Document 126    Filed 09/05/24    Page 1 of 27 PageID:
                                         2350
LAW OFFICES OF                                             James P. Nolan jnolan@jpnlaw.us

      NOLAN
                                                              Certified Criminal Attorney
                                                           Eric L. Lange elange@jpnlaw.us
                                                              Admitted in NJ & NY
            &                                              Brian A. Bontempo bbontempo@jpnlaw.us

      LANGE
                                                           Garry J. Clemente gclemente@jpnlaw.us

                                                           Sanford Rader 1960-2018

                                  September 5, 2024

      Via Electronic Mail
      Honorable Leda Dunn Wettre, U.S.M.J.
      United States District Court
      District of New Jersey
      Martin Luther King Building & U.S. Courthouse, MLK 3C
      50 Walnut Street,
      Newark, New Jersey 07101

      Re:    Nijeer Parks v. John E. McCormac, et al.
             Civil Action No. 2:21-cv-04021-MCA-LDW

      Dear Judge Wettre:

           As Your Honor is aware, this firm represents the interests of
      Defendants, John E. McCormac, Mayor of Woodbridge, Robert Hubner,
      Director of the Woodbridge Police Department, Woodbridge Police
      Officer Andrew Lyszyk and Woodbridge Police Sergeant Joseph
      Licciardi (collectively herein, the “Woodbridge Defendants”) with
      respect to the above-referenced matter.

           Please be advised that the settlement of this matter has been
      formally approved and funded. In connection with this settlement,
      please find enclosed herewith a copy of the executed Settlement
      Agreement and Release, along with Stipulations of Dismissal as to
      the Township and the individual Defendants, and a Certification of
      Destruction.


                                                       Respectfully,

                                                      /s/ Garry J. Clemente

                                                   Garry J. Clemente, Esq.
      Enc.




                         61 GREEN STREET, WOODBRIDGE, NJ 07095
                         PHONE: (732) 636-3344 FAX: (732) 636-1175
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW    Document 126          Filed 09/05/24   Page 2 of 27 PageID:
                                    2351



                SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT AND RELEASE
      THIS    SETTLEMENT       AGREEMENT            AND    RELEASE      (hereinafter

 “Agreement”) is made between NIJEER PARKS, his heirs, personal and

 legal    representatives,         successors        and    assigns     (hereinafter

 referred to as “Plaintiff”), and the TOWNSHIP OF WOODBRIDGE, its

 elected officials, directors, agents, attorneys, employees, former

 employees,   volunteers,      representatives,            insurers,     reinsurers,

 heirs,    executors,     administrators,             successors       and     assigns

 (hereinafter also referred to as the “Settling Defendant”).

                                     RECITALS

      WHEREAS, Plaintiff asserted certain claims against Defendants

 arising out of claims resulting from an incident which occurred on

 January 26, 2019 and actions which occurred thereafter as more

 fully set forth in a lawsuit entitled NIJEER PARKS v. JOHN E.

 McCORMACK, MAYOR OF WOODBRIDGE, et al. venued in the United States

 District Court, District of New Jersey, Civil Action Number 2:21-

 cv-04021-JXN-LDW (hereinafter the “lawsuit”); and

      WHEREAS, as a condition precedent to the execution of this

 Agreement,   Plaintiff      has    agreed     to    voluntarily       dismiss,      with

 prejudice, all claims set forth in his lawsuit against Defendants,

 WOODBRIDGE    MAYOR    JOHN        E.   McCORMAC          (improperly        pled    as

 “McCORMACK”), WOODBRIDGE POLICE DIRECTOR ROBERT HUBNER, WOODBRIDGE

 POLICE   OFFICER   ANDREW    LYSZYK,     and       WOODBRIDGE       POLICE   SERGEANT

 JOSEPH    LICCIARDI,     their       heirs,        executors,       administrators,

                                         1
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW      Document 126   Filed 09/05/24   Page 3 of 27 PageID:
                                      2352


 successors and assigns, (hereinafter referred to as the “Non-

 Settling Defendants); and

       WHEREAS, the Plaintiff and the Settling Defendant, TOWNSHIP

 OF WOODBRIDGE, have reached an agreement to fully and finally

 settle all claims between them, including those asserted in the

 lawsuit; and

       WHEREAS, the Settling Defendant and Non-Settling Defendants

 do not admit liability or any wrongdoing of any kind with respect

 to any and all allegations in the lawsuit; and

       INDEPENDENT OF AND NOT AS CONSIDERATION for this Settlement

 Agreement and Release, the Plaintiff has voluntarily dismissed all

 claims in his lawsuit, with prejudice, as to the Non-Settling

 Defendants by executing and filing a Voluntary Stipulation of

 Dismissal with Prejudice, as to all claims against the Non-Settling

 Defendants. This Voluntary Stipulation of Dismissal, executed by

 Plaintiff’s Counsel, is attached as Exhibit A and shall be filed

 by Counsel for the Township of Woodbridge.

       NOW, IN CONSIDERATION of the payment to Plaintiff as set forth

 in   this   Agreement,   the    receipt    and   sufficiency    of   which   the

 Plaintiff and the TOWNSHIP OF WOODBRIDGE agree as follows:

       1.    After an original of this Agreement, duly executed by

 Plaintiff and his Counsel, duly acknowledged as required, and with

 all required attachments, have been delivered to Counsel for

 Defendant TOWNSHIP OF WOODBRIDGE, within thirty (30) days after

                                        2
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW       Document 126     Filed 09/05/24   Page 4 of 27 PageID:
                                       2353


 delivery, the Defendant, TOWNSHIP OF WOODBRIDGE, shall pay to

 NIJEER PARKS and to DANIEL W. SEXTON, ESQ., LLC, the total sum of

 THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($300,000.00). This payment is in

 full and complete satisfaction of any and all claims, arising out

 of, in connection with or in any way relating to the lawsuit,

 including, but not limited to any claims for personal injuries,

 lost wages, loss of income, economic damages, medical expenses,

 claims for physical injuries and emotional distress, and claims

 for attorney’s fees, expenses and costs for the prosecution of

 Plaintiff’s claims as set forth in the lawsuit.

       2.      Defendant     TOWNSHIP        OF       WOODBRIDGE        makes      no

 representations regarding the federal or state tax consequences of

 the payments referred to above and shall not be responsible for

 any tax liability, interest or penalty incurred by Plaintiff which

 in any way arises out of or is related to said payment. Plaintiff

 agrees to pay any amount that may be determined to be due and owing

 as   taxes,    interest   and    penalties     arising     out    of   the   payment

 referred to in Paragraph 1 should it be determined that all or

 part of such payments constitute gross income to Plaintiff and/or

 his counsel within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code of

 1986, as amended, or under any other federal, state or local

 statute or ordinance. Plaintiff further agrees to (I) hold harmless

 the Settling and Non-Settling Defendants against, and to indemnify

 the Settling and Non-Settling Defendants for, any and all losses

                                         3
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW           Document 126     Filed 09/05/24    Page 5 of 27 PageID:
                                           2354


 and/or damages arising from claims by the Internal Revenue Service

 (“IRS”), or any other taxing authority or other governmental agency

 (whether federal, state or local), which may be made against the

 Settling and Non-Settling Defendants arising out of or relating to

 Settling Defendant’s failure to withhold any portion of the payment

 to Plaintiff for income or social security tax purposes, or for

 any other purpose, and (II) reimburse Settling and Non-Settling

 Defendants,         for     any     resulting      payments,        including    without

 limitation, all penalties and interest payable to the IRS, or any

 other taxing authority or governmental agency. The parties further

 agree      that     Settling        and   Non-Settling        Defendants    will     give

 Plaintiff notice of any such claim, and Plaintiff will cooperate

 with Settling and Non-Settling Defendants in the defense of such

 claim.      In any action commenced against Plaintiff to enforce the

 provisions of this paragraph, Settling and Non-Settling Defendants

 shall      be     entitled     to     recover      its    attorneys’     fees,     costs,

 disbursements, and the like incurred in prosecuting the action.

       3.        By executing this Agreement, Plaintiff certifies that he

 has   complied       with    the     requirements        of   N.J.S.A.   2A:17-56.23b.

 Plaintiff       understands         and   agrees    that      the   settlement     amount

 referenced in Paragraph 1, will not be released until such time as

 his attorney provides Counsel for Defendant TOWNSHIP OF WOODBRIDGE

 with a certified copy of a child support judgment search, performed

 by a private judgment search company, reflecting that Plaintiff is

                                              4
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW   Document 126      Filed 09/05/24     Page 6 of 27 PageID:
                                   2355


 not a child support judgment debtor. A copy of the Charles Jones

 Report shall be attached hereto by Plaintiff’s counsel as Exhibit

 B. Should the Charles Jones Report establish that child support

 from Plaintiff is due and owing, Plaintiff must pay the balance

 owed.

      4.     Plaintiff    acknowledges       that   all    claims    for   medical

 expenses,    paid   or   unpaid,   and/or     liens      asserted   for   medical

 expenses, paid or unpaid, will be satisfied from the proceeds of

 this settlement. Plaintiff reserves the right to contest any

 medical expense, paid or unpaid, asserted by any provider on any

 basis, including amount of expense, and whether the provider has

 written off or otherwise taken advantage of any tax benefit in

 connection thereto. Plaintiff is unaware of any lien(s) for medical

 expenses related to the injuries he sustained as a result of the

 litigation    identified    on   page   one    hereof.      By   executing    this

 agreement, Plaintiff certifies that he is complying with the

 requirements of 42 U.S.C. §1395y, et seq and 42 C.F.R. §411.24, et

 seq. Should any subsequent claims be made under these subsections,

 Plaintiff further agrees to (I) hold harmless the Settling and

 Non-Settling Defendants, their counsel and insurers against, and

 to indemnify said Defendants, Defendants’ counsel and Defendants’

 insurers for, any and all losses and/or damages arising from claims

 relating to Medicare/Medicaid brought by any governmental agency

 (whether federal, state or local), which may be made against

                                         5
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW    Document 126    Filed 09/05/24    Page 7 of 27 PageID:
                                    2356


 Defendants,    Defendants’     counsel      and/or   Defendants’       insurers

 arising out of or relating to Defendants, Defendants’ counsel

 and/or Defendants’ insurers’ failure to withhold any portion of

 the payment to Plaintiff for medical lien purposes, or for any

 other purpose, and (II) reimburse Defendants, Defendants’ counsel

 and/or Defendants’ insurers for any resulting payments, including

 without limitation, all penalties and interest payable to any

 governmental agency.

       5.   The Plaintiff hereby understands and acknowledges that

 the   Medicare,   Medicaid   and   SCHIP    Extension    Act    of   2007   (the

 "Extension    Act")     requires     the      reporting        to    designated

 representatives of Medicare and/or Medicaid any settlement in

 which all future claims are released and the Plaintiff is either

 a current Medicare and/or Medicaid beneficiary or has the potential

 to be eligible for Medicare and/or Medicaid benefits within thirty

 (30) months of the settlement. NIJEER PARKS acknowledges that he

 is not currently a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary. If Medicare

 asserts a lien for reimbursement of medical expenses incurred for

 the treatment of any injuries claimed by Nijeer Parks in connection

 with the matter of NIJEER PARKS v. JOHN E. McCORMAC, et al., Civil

 Action Number 2:21-cv-04021-JXN-LDW, Nijeer Parks agrees to submit

 the Final Settlement Detail Document to Medicare on the amount of

 this settlement. Nijeer Parks agrees to provide a copy of the Final

 Demand Letter to Defendant upon receipt of it from Medicare. Nijeer

                                      6
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW         Document 126     Filed 09/05/24      Page 8 of 27 PageID:
                                         2357


 Parks    further   agrees     to    provide      to    Defendant      a   copy    of   any

 agreement that may be made with Medicare regarding reimbursement

 of conditional payments.

      In the event that Nijeer Parks is covered under a Medicare

 Advantage     Plan,   Nijeer       Parks   acknowledges           that    the    Medicare

 Advantage Plan may also have the same reimbursement rights as

 Medicare (“Medicare Advantage lien”). Nijeer Parks agrees that the

 same reimbursement procedure outlined above for the Medicare lien

 will apply to any Medicare Advantage lien.

         The   Settling     Parties     have      considered         Medicare’s    future

 interests and have sought to protect them. It is not the intention

 of the Settling Parties to shift to Medicare responsibility for

 treatment for injuries or illnesses that are causally related. The

 cost of future medical expenses arising out of this claim is

 uncertain. Should Nijeer Parks expect any future treatment for

 injuries arising out of this incident, he understands that it is

 his obligation to notify CMS/Medicare/Medicaid and any Medicare

 Advantage     Plan,   or    any    other   entity       of    the    expected     nature,

 duration, and costs of said future treatments and abide by any set

 asides required.

         NIJEER   PARKS     hereby     Releases        all    Defendants,        including

 Defendant,       TOWNSHIP     OF      WOODBRIDGE,           and     the   Non-Settling

 Defendants, WOODBRIDGE MAYOR JOHN E. McCORMAC, WOODBRIDGE POLICE

 DIRECTOR ROBERT HUBNER, WOODBRIDGE POLICE OFFICER ANDREW LYSZYK,

                                            7
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW    Document 126    Filed 09/05/24   Page 9 of 27 PageID:
                                    2358


 and WOODBRIDGE POLICE SERGEANT JOSEPH LICCIARDI, their present and

 former   agents,     officers,    directors,      shareholders,     employees,

 principals, attorneys, insurers, parent companies, subsidiaries,

 affiliated companies, successors, predecessors, representatives,

 heirs and assigns of any responsibility for any and all post-

 settlement medical treatment and expenses, including any medical

 treatment and/or medical expenses that may be disputed and/or

 denied by Medicare or a Medicare Advantage Plan.

       NIJEER PARKS agrees to indemnify, defend and hold-harmless

 the   Non-Settling    Defendants    from    any   and   all    claims,   suits,

 demands, liabilities, costs, and attorney fees arising from any

 liens, subrogation claims, or other claims of recovery rights,

 past and future, known and unknown, including but not limited to

 future claims by CMS/Medicare/Medicaid and any Medicare Advantage

 Plan, or any other entity, in connection with any claims for

 reimbursement or coverage of medical benefits of any kind or nature

 whatsoever   and     for   any   failure,   or    claimed     failure    of   the

 Releasees. Said obligation(s) will not arise unless Nijeer Parks

 is provided timely notice of any such claim and is provided an

 opportunity to resolve any such claims.

       Should any person or entity not a party hereto pursue recovery

 of monies from the Non-Settling Defendants or bring a claim or

 claim against the Non-Settling Defendants related to payment for

 items or services related to the injuries claimed in this action,

                                       8
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW           Document 126     Filed 09/05/24   Page 10 of 27 PageID:
                                            2359


 Nijeer     Parks       agrees     to     provide     reasonable       cooperation    and

 assistance upon the request of the Non-Settling Defendants in

 defense of such a claim.

       6.       The parties further agree that within seven (7) days of

 the receipt by Counsel for Plaintiff of the payment referred to

 herein, a Stipulation of Dismissal, with Prejudice, as to claims

 against Defendant, TOWNSHIP OF WOODBRIDGE, shall be filed with the

 Clerk of the United States District Court, District of New Jersey.

 Plaintiff and Defendant, TOWNSHIP OF WOODBRIDGE, have agreed on

 the form of the Stipulation of Dismissal, with Prejudice, to be

 filed.     A    copy    of    the      Stipulation      of   Dismissal    executed    by

 Plaintiff’s Counsel is attached hereto as Exhibit C and Counsel

 for the        Township      of   Woodbridge     will    hold   the    Stipulation    of

 Dismissal, executed by Plaintiff’s Counsel, until the time period

 cited in this paragraph has expired prior to filing same with the

 Court.

       7.       It is specifically agreed and understood that the Non-

 Settling Defendants, WOODBRIDGE MAYOR JOHN E. McCORMAC, WOODBRIDGE

 POLICE DIRECTOR ROBERT HUBNER, WOODBRIDGE POLICE OFFICER ANDREW

 LYSZYK and WOODBRIDGE POLICE SERGEANT JOSEPH LICCIARDI, are not

 participants in the within settlement, as Plaintiff’s causes of

 action against the Non-Settling Defendants have been voluntarily

 dismissed, with Prejudice.



                                              9
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW       Document 126   Filed 09/05/24     Page 11 of 27 PageID:
                                        2360


       8.    It is specifically understood and agreed that the amount

 paid under this Settlement Agreement and Release includes all

 attorneys’ fees and costs to which Plaintiff and/or his attorney(s)

 may be entitled and the settlement sum is specifically intended to

 be    inclusive    of   all     attorneys’     fees     and     costs.    Plaintiff

 understands     that    by    executing    this   Settlement       Agreement       and

 Release,   he     releases      and   waives   any    claim     and/or     right    to

 attorneys’ fees and expenses in connection with the prosecution of

 the lawsuit. Neither Plaintiff, nor Daniel W. Sexton, Esq., LLC,

 or any other Law Firm acting on Plaintiff’s behalf during the

 prosecution of said action shall make application for additional

 monies in addition to the amount set forth in Paragraph 1, as that

 settlement amount includes attorney’s fees and expenses incurred

 for the prosecution of the claims set forth in the lawsuit.

       9.    Plaintiff hereby releases and forever discharges the

 Settling Defendant and the Non-Settling Defendants, including, but

 not   limited     to,   their    elected     officials,       directors,    agents,

 attorneys,        employees,          former         employees,          volunteers,

 representatives,        insurers,       reinsurers,           heirs,     executors,

 administrators, successors and assigns from any and all actions,

 causes of action, suits, claims, charges or complaints, known or

 unknown, which Plaintiff has, may have, or claims to have against

 any of them. Plaintiff acknowledges that this is a Settlement

 Agreement and Release and includes, but is not limited to, any and

                                         10
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW       Document 126     Filed 09/05/24     Page 12 of 27 PageID:
                                        2361


 all claims set forth, arising out of, in connection with or in any

 way relating to the lawsuit, claims arising under federal, state,

 and local laws including but not limited to, claims for negligence,

 intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress and/or

 mental anguish, conspiracy, assault and battery, false arrest,

 false imprisonment, violations of the United States Constitution

 and   statutes,     violations     of   the     New     Jersey    Constitution       and

 statutes, harassment, discrimination, excessive force, failure to

 intervene,    unlawful      seizure,      malicious      prosecution,        abuse   of

 process, untruthfulness, failure to act, failure to train, failure

 to discipline, failure to supervise, unlawful or insufficient

 policies, customs and/or practices, retaliation, personal injury,

 humiliation,       pain   and     suffering,      public        policy   violations,

 emotional distress, invasion of privacy, defamation, intentional

 acts, property damage claims, claims for economic damages, claims

 for attorney’s fees, expenses and costs, claims for physical,

 mental,     emotional      and     psychological          injuries,      damage      to

 reputation, or any other form of compensatory damages, claims for

 prospective    injunctive        relief,       claims    for     equitable    relief,

 punitive damages and any and all other claims however denominated

 regardless of legal theory or operative facts. This Settlement

 Agreement    and    Release     further    includes       all     claims,    known    or

 unknown, for anything that has occurred up to and including the

 date of this Agreement.           Plaintiff further releases any and all

                                           11
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW      Document 126       Filed 09/05/24   Page 13 of 27 PageID:
                                       2362


 rights he may have to seek further discovery on any claims which

 have been encompassed by this lawsuit, or which has been a result

 of the actions or non-actions of the Settling Defendant and/or the

 Non-Settling Defendants. Plaintiff hereby releases and forever

 discharges the Settling Defendant and the Non-Settling Defendants

 from any and all claims for attorney’s fees and costs or other

 expenses incurred by Plaintiff or his counsel in pursuit of the

 lawsuit     that   exists    through   the    date     of   this   fully     executed

 Agreement as against said Defendants, their elected officials,

 directors,     agents,       attorneys,      employees,       former     employees,

 volunteers,        representatives,        insurers,        reinsurers,        heirs,

 executors, administrators, successors and/or assigns, arising out

 of this lawsuit.

       10.    Plaintiff further covenants and promises that he will

 not hereafter file or cause to be filed on her behalf any charge,

 complaint, legal or administrative action of any nature before any

 court or administrative agency to assert any claim against the

 Settling     Defendant      and   Non-Settling       Defendants      named    in   the

 lawsuit, for anything that has occurred up to and including the

 date that this Settlement Agreement and Release is fully executed.

       11.    This Agreement does not constitute and shall in no manner

 be construed as an admission of any wrongdoing or liability on the

 part of Defendant TOWNSHIP OF WOODBRIDGE and the Non-Settling

 Defendants,     or   as   an   admission     by    the   Defendant     TOWNSHIP     OF

                                        12
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW   Document 126   Filed 09/05/24   Page 14 of 27 PageID:
                                    2363


 WOODBRIDGE and the Non-Settling Defendants of the validity of any

 of the Plaintiff’s allegations as contained in her lawsuit and/or

 as supplemented during the course of discovery. The Settling

 Defendant and Non-Settling Defendants continue to maintain the

 validity of their denials and affirmative defenses set forth in

 their respective Answers to the lawsuit.

       12.   Plaintiff represents that he has not assigned to any

 third party any claim that he has, may have, or believes he has

 against the Settling Defendant and the Non-Settling Defendants.

 Plaintiff represents and warrants that no other person or entity

 has or had any interest in the claims, demands, obligations or

 causes of action referred to in this Settlement Agreement and

 Release; and that Plaintiff has not sold, assigned, transferred,

 conveyed and/or otherwise disposed of any of the claims, demands,

 obligations, or causes of actions referred to in the Settlement

 Agreement and Release to any third party any claim that he has,

 may have or believes he has against the Settling Defendant and

 Non-Settling Defendants. Plaintiff has not filed, will not file,

 or cause to be filed any charge, claim, allegation, legal or

 administrative action, or complaint of any kind before any court,

 administrative entity or any other entity to assert claims against

 the Settling Defendant and the Non-Settling Defendants seeking

 monetary    recovery,   sanctions,   equitable    relief,     or   injunctive

 relief, for anything that has occurred, may have occurred or has

                                      13
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW    Document 126   Filed 09/05/24   Page 15 of 27 PageID:
                                     2364


 alleged to have occurred up to and including the date that this

 Agreement was fully executed with respect to any matter in any way

 arising out of or relating to Plaintiff’s involvement with the

 Settling Defendant and the Non-Settling Defendants prior to the

 date that this Settlement Agreement and Release is fully executed,

 or any matter or incident relating to the subject matter of the

 lawsuit.

       13.   By executing this Agreement, Plaintiff represents and

 acknowledges that he does not rely, and has not relied upon, any

 representation or statement not set forth in this Agreement made

 by the Settling Defendant or the Non-Settling Defendants, or their

 counsel with regard to the subject matter, basis, or effect of

 this Agreement or otherwise. This Agreement sets forth the entire

 agreement between the parties and supersedes any and all prior

 agreements or understandings between the parties.

       14.   It is understood and agreed that Plaintiff will not at

 any time, directly or indirectly, or induce others to, make,

 publish or communicate to any person or entity or in any public

 forum, any defamatory, false or injurious remarks, comments, or

 statements concerning the lawsuit, this Agreement or the Settling

 Defendant and/or the Non-Settling Defendants, as well as any of

 their elected officials, directors, agents, attorneys, employees,

 former      employees,      volunteers,     representatives,        insurers,

 reinsurers,    heirs,    executors,    administrators,       successors     and

                                       14
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW    Document 126     Filed 09/05/24    Page 16 of 27 PageID:
                                     2365


 assigns, heirs, and administrators, that may be considered to be

 defamatory, false or injurious to the good name or reputation of

 the   Settling    Defendant       and/or     the   Non-Settling       Defendant.

 Plaintiff and his counsel may make comments concerning the lawsuit

 and this Agreement if required by law, legal process or litigation

 is brought for the enforcement of this Agreement or by any court,

 arbitrator,    mediator      or   administrative       or      legislative    body

 (including any committee thereof) with apparent jurisdiction over

 Plaintiff or such legal process and as necessary to discuss with

 any tax, medical or mental health advisor, CMS/Medicare/Medicaid

 and any Medicare Advantage Plan, or immediate family member. In

 accordance with this Paragraph and Paragraph 15, Plaintiff may

 communicate to others the facts of his life story including his

 relationship with the Defendants, the events of January 26, 2019,

 his injuries and recovery.

       15.   This Settlement Agreement and Release shall be binding

 and inure to the benefit of the Plaintiff and his successors,

 assigns, heirs, executors and personal and legal representatives,

 the TOWNSHIP OF WOODBRIDGE, as well as its elected officials,

 directors,    agents,       attorneys,      employees,      former    employees,

 volunteers,      representatives,          insurers,     reinsurers,         heirs,

 executors, administrators, successors and/or assigns.

       16.   This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the

 laws of the State of New Jersey.

                                       15
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW       Document 126        Filed 09/05/24     Page 17 of 27 PageID:
                                        2366


       17.    In    the    event     either     party    breaches       the    terms   and

 provisions set forth in the preceding paragraphs, the other party

 shall be entitled to bring an action for breach of this Agreement.

 If either party seeks to rescind this Agreement as a result of a

 breach,     the   other      will   be   entitled      to   the      status   quo    ante.

 Further, the negotiations are deemed privileged and shall not be

 disclosed or construed for any purpose.

       18.    The parties agree that the language of this Agreement

 has been negotiated, is a product of the draftsmanship of Counsel

 for all of the parties and that the usual rule that the provisions

 of a document are to be construed against the drafter shall not

 apply to the interpretation of any provisions of this Agreement.

       19.    The signature of the Plaintiff below indicates he has

 had an opportunity to review this Agreement with his attorneys,

 that he has read and understood the provisions and that he has

 executed it voluntarily with full knowledge of the significance of

 all provisions.

       20.    In entering into this Settlement Agreement and Release,

 Plaintiff, NIJEER PARKS, represents that he has been represented

 by   counsel      of   his   choice      at   the   time    of    execution     of    this

 Settlement Agreement and Release, that Plaintiff, NIJEER PARKS,

 has relied upon the legal advice of such counsel, that the terms

 of this Settlement Agreement and Release have been completely read

 and explained to Plaintiff, NIJEER PARKS, by said counsel and that

                                               16
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW     Document 126        Filed 09/05/24     Page 18 of 27 PageID:
                                      2367


 those terms are fully understood and voluntarily accepted by

 Plaintiff, NIJEER PARKS.

       21.   It    is   understood    and       agreed    that      all    confidential

 materials, including but not limited to Internal Affairs Files,

 training records, personnel files, training materials and all

 documents marked or bates stamped as “Confidential” of Defendant,

 TOWNSHIP OF WOODBRIDGE, produced in discovery, whether pursuant to

 a Protective Order of the Court or by the Defendant, TOWNSHIP OF

 WOODBRIDGE, or the Non-Settling Defendants voluntarily, shall be

 returned, without copies being made or retained by Plaintiff’s

 counsel, experts, clients or any other persons or entities that

 have received these documents as a result of this litigation,

 forthwith    to    Counsel    for   Defendant,        TOWNSHIP       OF    WOODBRIDGE,

 contemporaneously with the delivery of the executed Release and

 Settlement       Agreement.   In    the        alternative      to    returning     all

 documents, Plaintiff’s Counsel may execute a Certification of

 Destruction, attached as Exhibit D.

       22.    Counsel for Plaintiff and the Settling Defendant, all

 of whose signatures appear below, represent and warrant that they

 have reviewed this Settlement Agreement and Release with their

 respective clients. The Plaintiff has been advised by his Counsel

 to execute the Settlement Agreement and Release.




                                           17
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW   Document 126         Filed 09/05/24   Page 19 of 27 PageID:
                                    2368


       23.   This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of

 which, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed to be an

 original.

       24.   If   any   provision    of    this     Agreement      is   found   to   be

 unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, all other

 provisions will remain fully enforceable. The covenants set forth

 in this Agreement shall be considered and construed as separate

 and independent covenants. Should any part or provision of any

 provision of this Agreement be held invalid, void or unenforceable

 in any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity, voidness

 or    unenforceability      shall        not     render     invalid,      void      or

 unenforceable any other part or provision of this Agreement. If

 the release and waiver of claims provisions of this Agreement are

 held to be unenforceable, the parties agree to enter into a release

 and waiver agreement that is enforceable.

       25.   Plaintiff agrees to comply with any Order of a Court of

 competent jurisdiction with regard to the terms and conditions of

 this Settlement Agreement and Release.

       26.   By executing this Agreement, Plaintiff represents and

 acknowledges that he does not rely, and has not relied upon, any

 representation or statement not set forth in this Agreement with

 regard to the subject matter, basis, or effect of this Agreement

 or otherwise. This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement



                                          18
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW   Document 126   Filed 09/05/24   Page 20 of 27 PageID:
                                    2369
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW   Document 126   Filed 09/05/24   Page 21 of 27 PageID:
                                    2370
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW   Document 126   Filed 09/05/24   Page 22 of 27 PageID:
                                    2371
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW   Document 126   Filed 09/05/24   Page 23 of 27 PageID:
                                    2372


 GARRY J. CLEMENTE, ESQ. (ID# 305992020)
 LAW OFFICE OF NOLAN & LANGE, L.L.C.
 61 GREEN STREET
 WOODBRIDGE, NEW JERSEY 07095
 TELEPHONE: (732) 636-3344 FAX: (732) 636-1175
 Attorneys for Defendants, Woodbridge Township, Woodbridge Mayor
 John E. McCormac, Woodbridge Police Director Robert Hubner,
 Woodbridge Police Officer Andrew Lyszyk, and Woodbridge Police
 Sergeant Joseph Licciardi

                       UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                      FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY

 NIJEER PARKS,                        : CIVIL ACTION NO.
                                      : 2:21-CV-04021-JXN-LDW
                    Plaintiff,        :
                                      : CERTIFICATION OF DESTRUCTION
 -v-                                  : OR DELETION OF CONFIDENTIAL
                                      : DOCUMENTS
 JOHN E. McCORMAC, et al.,            :
                                      :
                    Defendants.       :

       I, Daniel W. Sexton, Esq. hereby certify as follows:

       I am an attorney licensed to practice in the State of New

 Jersey.

       I represent Plaintiff, Nijeer Parks (“Plaintiff”) in the

 above-referenced action.

       Throughout     the    course    of   the     aforementioned     action,

 Defendants    (“Producing    Defendants”),       its   e-discovery   vendors,

 and/or its other contractors have produced and supplied Plaintiff

 and Plaintiff’s Counsel with documents, information and other

 materials in various media formats containing information that the

 Producing Defendants have identified as “Confidential”.




                                        1
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW     Document 126    Filed 09/05/24    Page 24 of 27 PageID:
                                      2373


       The undersigned, as Plaintiff’s Counsel, hereby certifies

 that:

       Access to any and all of the Producing Defendants’ documents,

 information or other material produced in the identified legal

 matter and marked as “Confidential” has been properly safeguarded

 at all times and such security for such documents has not been

 electronically or physically breached or leaked and none of the

 Producing Defendants’ documents, information or other material in

 the identified legal matter have been removed from the Plaintiff’s

 counsel’s possession and control;

       No access has been granted to subcontractors, vendors or third

 parties to the Producing Defendants’ documents, information or

 other material in the identified legal matter which materials were

 marked as “Confidential”;

       None of the Producing Defendants’ documents, information or

 other   material   in   the    identified     legal   matter     and   marked   as

 “Confidential”     have       been    transmitted        in     hard    copy    or

 electronically to Plaintiff or any other person, and if it has,

 all   such   information      has    been    retrieved    and    physically     or

 electronically destroyed.

       All physical copies of the Producing Defendants’ documents,

 information or other material, including, but not limited to, paper

 copies, CDs, DVDs, photographs and video-recordings which were



                                         2
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW          Document 126        Filed 09/05/24    Page 25 of 27 PageID:
                                           2374


 marked      as    “Confidential”         have       been   physically      destroyed      by

 Plaintiff’s Counsel.

       All electronic copies of the Producing Defendants’ documents,

 information or other material and marked as “Confidential” that

 have been received, downloaded, uploaded or electronically stored

 in any manner on any electronic device or platform capable of

 storing such electronic information, whether maintained on any

 servers, individual work stations, hard drives, cloud storage, USB

 flash drives, smart phones, laptops, tablets, other back-up media,

 e-files, electronic mail boxes or any other source, have been

 permanently deleted from any and all such electronic devices or

 platforms        on    which     any    such    information       has    been     received,

 downloaded,           uploaded    or    electronically          stored    using    current

 industry-best practices, and by signing this document, Plaintiff’s

 counsel     certifies       that       such    information      has     been   permanently

 deleted and cannot be recovered in compliance with industry-best

 practices.

       Any    access       keys    or    security       tokens    used     to    access   the

 Producing Defendant’s documents and marked as “Confidential” have

 either expired, or been returned to counsel for the Producing

 Defendants,        and    any     passwords         used   to   access    the     Producing

 Defendants’ documents, information and other materials have been

 destroyed.



                                                 3
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW     Document 126      Filed 09/05/24    Page 26 of 27 PageID:
                                      2375


       This certification pertains exclusively to the documents,

 information    and    other    materials       provided      by    the    Producing

 Defendants and marked as “Confidential”. This certification does

 not require Plaintiff’s Counsel to delete, destroy or return to

 the   Producing      Defendants      documents,       information        and   other

 materials that were not marked as “Confidential” or obtained from

 another source or documents, information and other materials that

 were extracted from the Confidential materials and used in the

 litigation of this legal matter, including attorney work product,

 or any such information that has become part of the public case

 record for the legal matter. Such documents remaining in the case

 record   are   subject   to    all    client    confidentiality          rules,   and

 Plaintiff’s counsel acknowledges its obligations which include,

 among other things, all applicable ABA and/or state rules and

 requirements concerning the safeguarding of the Firm’s client

 files.

       Plaintiff’s Counsel hereby certifies that all the Producing

 Defendants documents, information and other materials marked as

 “Confidential” in hard copy have been destroyed, and all such

 documents,     information      and     other      materials       electronically

 received, downloaded, uploaded, or electronically stored in any

 way or on any electronic device or otherwise maintained have been

 permanently deleted and cannot be recovered from any and all such



                                         4
Case 2:21-cv-04021-JKS-LDW   Document 126   Filed 09/05/24   Page 27 of 27 PageID:
                                    2376
