 Facial Recognition - ACLU of Michigan KNOW YOUR VOTING RIGHTS Across the state, local clerks, their staff, and election workers work hard to make sure every eligible voter can cast a ballot – and every vote is counted. Local clerks recruit community members to be poll workers, maintain polling locations, and carry out the checks and balances that protect every ballot. Elections belong to the people. Every eligible voter should have equal say in the decisions that impact our lives. Know your voting rights. Practice your voting rights. Read More About Your Voting Rights About About Us Our Staff Contact Us Careers Board of Directors ACLU National Shop ACLU Financial Reports Our Work Issues Cases Legal Dockets Know Your Rights Publications News Press Releases News and Blogs File a Complaint Take Action Español Donate Ways To Give Make a Gift Join or Renew Give in Memory/Honor of About About Us Our Staff Contact Us Careers Board of Directors ACLU National Shop ACLU Financial Reports Our Work Issues Cases Legal Dockets Know Your Rights Publications News Press Releases News and Blogs File a Complaint Take Action Español Donate Ways To Give Make a Gift Join or Renew Give in Memory/Honor of Donate Ways To Give Make a Gift Join or Renew Give in Memory/Honor of Court Cases Facial Recognition Privacy & Technology Latest Update: Dec 19, 2023 Summary This embed will serve content from {{ domain }}. See our privacy statement The use of facial recognition surveillance technology has been shown to be inaccurate, racially biased, and a threat to personal privacy. In 2020 Detroit police officers arrested Robert Williams on his front lawn, in front of his wife and two young daughters, on charges that he had stolen watches from a Shinola store in Detroit. The arrest was based almost entirely on a facial recognition scan from security footage at the Shinola store, but it was dead wrong: Mr. Williams was not the man in the security footage and was nowhere near the store at the time of the theft. In 2021 the ACLU filed a federal lawsuit against the Detroit Police Department, alleging that the officers involved violated Mr. Williams’ rights under the Fourth Amendment and the Elliott-Larsen Civil Rights Act by arresting him on the basis of this flawed technology. Discovery in the case exposed systemic and comprehensive failures to use facial recognition technology responsibly and to train detectives in basic investigatory techniques and legal requirements. Meanwhile, in a second lawsuit brought by private counsel on behalf of another man falsely arrested under similar circumstances, we filed a friend-of-the-court brief in April 2023 highlighting the dangers of facial recognition technology and the failures we had uncovered during discovery. In June 2024 we entered into a settlement agreement, enforceable by the federal court for four years, that converts the Detroit Police Department from one of the nation’s worst abusers of facial recognition technology into a leader in imposing guardrails that limit possible abuses. Under the settlement, the police are prohibited from conducting lineups based solely on facial recognition leads, a procedure that creates a rigged lineup and lies behind each wrongful arrest using this technology in Detroit. The settlement also requires facial recognition examiners to disclose critical information about their searches (and the factors rendering them less reliable) to detectives, courts, and attorneys—information that can ensure each of those actors are aware of, and can act upon, exculpatory information arising from such searches. The settlement also requires training for police officers, including on how the technology misidentifies people of color at higher rates than other people. ( Williams v. City of Detroit ; Oliver v. City of Detroit ; ACLU of Michigan Attorneys Phil Mayor, Ramis Wadood and Dan Korobkin, and legal interns Arshi Baig and Simon Roennecke; National ACLU Attorney Nathan Freed Wessler; Co-counsel Michael J. Steinberg of U-M Law School, with student attorneys Eilidh Jenness, Ben Mordechai-Strongin, Jeremy Shur, Deborah Won, Rihan Issa, Camelia Metwally, Seth Mayer, Jonathan Barnett, Lauren Yu, Will Ellis, Mickey Terlep, Brendan Jackson, Keenan McMurray, Julia Kahn, Lacie Melasi, Collin Christner, Ewurama Appiagyei-Dankah, and Nethra Raman.) See further case background Documents Williams v City of Detroit - Complaint Facial Recognition *]:h-4 [&>*]:w-3 [&>*>*]:fill-burgundy-7"> Legal Documents Williams v City of Detroit - Complaint Affiliate: MI Download document *]:w-[150px]"> Learn More About the Issues in This Case Privacy & Technology View All Issues Stay Informed Sign up to be the first to hear about how to take action. By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement. By completing this form, I agree to receive occasional emails per the terms of the ACLU’s privacy statement . Search Press Donate File a Complaint Search © 2026 ACLU of Michigan User Agreement Privacy Statement Website Accessibility 