 Civil Rights Division | Louis et al. v. SafeRent et al. (D. Mass.) | United States Department of Justice Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Here's how you know Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. DOJ Menu U.S. Department of Justice About The Attorney General Organizational Chart Budget & Performance History & Museum Privacy Program Our Work News Press Releases Speeches Videos Photo Galleries Blogs Podcasts Resources Guidance Documents Forms Publications Information for Victims in Large Cases Justice Manual Business and Contracts Grants Employment Why Justice ? Benefits DOJ Vacancies Legal Careers at DOJ Our Offices Find Help Contact Us Utilities Our Offices Find Help Contact Us Search Menu Close About About The Assistant Attorney General Our Work Contact the Division Contact the Division Report a Violation Cases and Matters Press Room Press Room Videos Publications Employment Opportunities Employment Opportunities Experienced Professionals Volunteer and Paid Student Internship Programs Civil Rights FOIA Civil Rights FOIA Emmett Till Act/Cold Case Memoranda Our Offices Find Help Contact Us Main Menu U.S. Department of Justice About title="About" About The Attorney General Organizational Chart Budget & Performance History & Museum Privacy Program Our Work News title="News" News Press Releases Speeches Videos Photo Galleries Blogs Podcasts Resources title="Guidance & Resources" Resources Guidance Documents Forms Publications Information for Victims in Large Cases Justice Manual Business and Contracts Grants Employment Employment Why Justice ? Benefits DOJ Vacancies Legal Careers at DOJ Our Offices Find Help Contact Us Search Breadcrumb Justice.gov Civil Rights Division Louis Et Al. V. SafeRent Et Al. (D. Mass.) Case Louis et al. v. SafeRent et al. (D. Mass.) Share Facebook X LinkedIn Email Overview On January 9, 2023, the United States filed a Statement of Interest in Louis et al. v. SafeRent et al. (D. Mass.), a case brought under the Fair Housing Act (FHA). The Louis lawsuit was filed on behalf of two plaintiffs, Mary Louis and Monica Douglas, Black rental applicants who use housing vouchers to pay part of their rent. Plaintiffs applied for rental housing but allege they were denied due to their “SafeRent Score,” a score derived from Defendant SafeRent’s algorithm-based screening software. The plaintiffs allege that SafeRent scores result in an unlawful disparate impact against Black and Hispanic rental applicants because the underlying algorithm relies on certain factors that disproportionately disadvantage Black and Hispanic applicants, such as credit history and non-tenancy related debts, while failing to consider one highly-relevant factor, that the use of housing vouchers funded by HUD makes such tenants more likely to pay their rents. In its Statement of Interest, the United States sets out the appropriate standard for pleading disparate impact claims under the FHA and clarifies that the FHA’s text and caselaw support the FHA’s application to companies providing residential screening services. On July 26, 2023, the Court denied defendants’ motions to dismiss plaintiffs’ FHA claims. In its order , the Court held that defendant SafeRent was subject to the FHA and that plaintiffs had alleged a plausible claim for disparate impact discrimination under the FHA against both defendants. Press Release (1/9/2023) Case Open Date January 9, 2023 Case Name Louis et al. v. SafeRent et al. (D. Mass.) Tags Metropolitan Management Group; Fair Housing Act; FHA; algorithm; HUD; Black; Hispanic; rent applications; vouchers Industry Code(s) None Components Civil Rights Division Civil Rights - Housing and Civil Enforcement Section Case Documents Statement of Interest – Saferent Solutions, LLC (D. Mass.) [PDF, ] Memorandum and Order - Mary Louis v. SafeRent Solutions, LLC (D. Mass.) [PDF, ] Updated August 17, 2023 Civil Rights Division U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Office of the Assistant Attorney General, Main Washington DC 20530 Civil Rights Division 202-514-3847 TTY/TDD: 711 Signup for Email Updates Social Media twitter About Budget & Performance Archives FOIA Accessibility Legal Policies & Disclaimers Privacy For Employees Office of the Inspector General No FEAR Act Data EEO Policy Statement Vulnerability Disclosure Multilingual Vote.gov Have a question about Government Services? Contact USA.gov Top 