                       UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                        MIDDLE DISTRICT OF FLORIDA
                            FORT MYERS DIVISION


IN RE: THOMAS GRANT NEUSOM,

                                  Case No:   2:24-mc-2-JES


                            OPINION AND ORDER

      This matter comes before the Court on review of the Report

and Recommendation of the Grievance Committee (the Report and

Recommendation).       The Report and Recommendation, first filed in

Clark Pear LLC v. MVP Realty Associates LLC, Case No. 2:23-cv-

00503-JLB-NPM, Doc. #44 (M.D. Fla. Jan. 12, 2024), makes certain

findings of misconduct by attorney Thomas Grant Neusom (Mr. Neusom)

and recommends certain disciplinary actions.        On January 15, 2024,

Mr.   Neusom   filed    Plaintiff’s   Objection   and   Response   to   the

Grievance Committee Report and Recommendation (Doc. #45 in Clark

Pear LLC).     On January 31, 2024, Chief Judge Timothy J. Corrigan

directed the grievance matter be handled in this miscellaneous

case and designated the undersigned to address the matter.          (Case

No. 2:24-mc-2-JES, Doc. #1.)

      On February 2, 2024, pursuant to Local Rule 2.04(c)(4)(F), of

the Local Rules of the United States District Court for the Middle

District of Florida (Local Rules), the undersigned ordered Mr.

Neusom to file a response to the Report and Recommendation or to

notify the Court that his prior Objection and Response would
constitute his response.       (Doc. #5.)       No additional response or

notice has been filed, and the time to do so has expired.

                                       I.

     Mr. Neusom was plaintiff’s counsel in Clark Pear LLC v. MVP

Realty   Associates   LLC,    Case    No.    2:23-cv-00503-JLB-NPM   (Clark

Pear).   On August 10, 2023, Magistrate Judge Nicholas Mizell made

a referral to the Grievance Committee for the Middle District of

Florida, Fort Myers Division, to investigate whether Mr. Neusom’s

conduct related to Clarke Pear fell short of professional and

ethical norms.   The resulting Report and Recommendation (Doc. #3)

summarizes the background of the underlying case, describes the

Grievance   Committee’s      investigation,     summarizes   the   relevant

standards of conduct for an attorney, and sets forth its findings.

(Id.)    Specifically, the Grievance Committee found probable cause

existed to (1) find that Mr. Neusom violated Rule 4-1.3 by failing

to act with reasonable diligence; (2) believe Mr. Neusom violated

Rules 4-3.3(a)(3) and 4-8.4(c) by making misrepresentations to the

Court; (3) find Mr. Neusom violated Rule 4-3.4(c) by knowingly

disobeying an obligation under the rules of a tribunal; and (4)

find that Mr. Neusom violated Florida’s Rules of Professional

Conduct in multiple ways.      The Grievance Committee concluded that

sanctions were in order and recommended specific sanctions to be

imposed.




                                     - 2 -
                                  II.

     Although it is not entirely clear, Mr. Neusom’s Objection and

Response seems to argue in part that sanctions may not be imposed

after the underlying case was closed.    The district judge handling

the underlying case previously stated:

          Moreover, with respect to the referral to the
          Grievance Committee, The Local Rules for the
          Middle District of Florida provide that “[a]
          judge ... can initiate an investigation of
          alleged lawyer misconduct.” M.D. Fla. L.R.
          2.04(c)(4). Plaintiff does not cite any source
          setting   a   time   limit   for   when   such
          investigation may be initiated and the Court
          is unaware of any such source. Accordingly,
          the objection to the Grievance Committee Order
          is overruled.

Clark Pear, LLC v. MVP Realty Associates, LLC, 2:23-CV-503-JLB-

NPM, 2023 WL 7297401, at *2 (M.D. Fla. Nov. 6, 2023).     “It is well

established that a federal court may consider collateral issues

after an action is no longer pending.”        See Cooter & Gell v.

Hartmarx Corp., 496 U.S. 384, 395 (1990) (a voluntary dismissal

does not expunge Rule 11 sanctions).    See also Law Sols. of Chicago

LLC v. Corbett, 971 F.3d 1299, 1316 (11th Cir. 2020) (rejecting

argument that Bankruptcy Court could not impose sanctions after

case was closed and never reopened) (collecting cases).     The Court

concludes that the remand of the underlying case to state court

does not divest the court of jurisdiction to impose disciplinary

action pursuant to the Report and Recommendation of a grievance

committee.



                              - 3 -
                                          III.

      “A lawyer appearing in the Middle District [of Florida] must

remain familiar with, and is bound by, the rules governing the

professional conduct of a member of The Florida Bar.”                M.D. Fla.

R. 2.01(e).      The Court has reviewed the record, the Report and

Recommendations, and the Objections and Response carefully, and

has applied a de novo standard of review.             The Court overrules the

Objections filed by Mr. Neusom.                The Court agrees with, and

therefore adopts, the findings of the Grievance Committee.                    The

Court finds that clear and convincing evidence establishes the

lawyer misconduct identified in the Report and Recommendation.

The   Court   also    agrees   that     the   sanctions    recommended   by   the

Grievance     Committee       are   appropriate      and    proportional,     and

therefore will impose the substance of the sanctions recommended

by the Grievance Committee.

      Accordingly, it is hereby

      ORDERED:

      1. The Objections to the Report and Recommendation (Doc. #45)

        are OVERRULED.

      2. The Grievance Committee’s Report and Recommendation (Doc.

        #3) is ACCEPTED, ADOPTED, and incorporated herein.

      3. After   de    novo    review    of    the   Committee’s   Report     and

        Recommendation, the Court finds by clear and convincing

        evidence that Mr. Neusom’s behavior violated Florida Bar



                                      - 4 -
  Rules 4-1.3, 4-3.3(a)(3), 4-8.4(c), and 4-3.4(c), and the

  Florida Rules of Professional Conduct.

4. Mr. Neusom is SUSPENDED from the Bar of the United States

  District Court for the Middle District of Florida for a

  period of one (1) year.         The suspension is effective

  beginning thirty (30) days from the date of this Order.

  This delay is intended to permit Mr. Neusom to address any

  existing case load within the jurisdiction of the Middle

  District of Florida and protect the interests of clients

  during his suspension

5. Mr. Neusom is PROHIBITED from taking on new cases in the

  United States District Court for the Middle District of

  Florida, effective as of the date of this Order and lasting

  until he is reinstated in the Bar of the Middle District

  of Florida pursuant to the Reinstatement Conditions set

  forth below.

6. The following Reinstatement Conditions are SET and must be

  completed before Mr. Neusom is permitted to petition to

  the Bar of the United States District Court for the Middle

  District of Florida for reinstatement:

  A. During the period of suspension, Mr. Neusom must:

     i.   Attend   and     complete     The   Florida    Bar’s

     Professionalism Workshop;




                          - 5 -
    ii.    Attend and complete all aspects of a Law Practice

    Management CLE;

    iii. Attend and complete all aspects of the Practicing

    with Professionalism CLE; and

    iv.    Receive   Counseling    through   the   Florida   Lawyers

    Assistance Program.

  B. Pay all outstanding monetary sanctions, fees, and costs

    levied    against    him,     in   any   federal,   state,   or

    disciplinary actions;

  C. Complete all remediation ordered by The Florida Bar, if

    any;

  D. Complete all remediation ordered by any court, including

    reporting of any sanction orders levied by any court to

    the appropriate parties;

  E. Re-read the Florida Rules of Professional Conduct and

    the Local Rules of the United States District Court for

    the Middle District of Florida in full and certify in

    writing to this Court that he has done so; and

  F. Report to the Court the completion of subparagraphs (A)

    through (E) of this paragraph on or before the date

    marking the end of the suspension period.

7. The Clerk is DIRECTED to forward a copy of this Order to

  all judges of the United States District Court for the




                           - 6 -
          Middle District of Florida and to serve a copy of this

          Order on The Florida Bar.

     DONE and ORDERED at Fort Myers, Florida, this      8th   day of

March 2024.




Copies:

Chief Judge

Lee Hollander, Committee Chair

Attorneys of Record in Clark Pear LLC v. MVP Realty Assocs. LLC, Case
No. 2:23-cv-503-JLB-NPM (M.D. Fla.)




                                 - 7 -
