        Case 1:26-cv-02006-SDG       Document 66     Filed 08/28/26   Page 1 of 6




                  IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                 FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA
                           ATLANTA DIVISION

    ERIN BOOKER,
       Plaintiff,
                                                               Civil Action No.
                         v.
                                                              1:26-cv-02006-SDG
    THE KROGER CO.,
      Defendant.

                     OPINION AND ORDER OF SANCTIONS

        This matter is before the Court on its previous Order to Show Cause

[ECF 53] directed to counsel for Plaintiff to explain why he should not be

sanctioned for using fake or hallucinated case authorities, as well as

misrepresenting the content of real case authorities, in his filings with the Court.

Because Plaintiff’s counsel, as an officer of the Court, deliberately lied to this Court

about his artificial intelligence (AI) use and because Plaintiff’s counsel’s response

to the Order to Show Cause [ECF 58] lacks credibility, is evasive, and seeks to

divert accountability from his own misconduct, sanctions are warranted.

        Counsel for Defendant was the first to raise concerns about Plaintiff’s

counsel’s reliance on AI tools in a manner that violated his duties and

responsibilities to the Court under Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.1

After the Court reviewed Plaintiff’s filings and shared in those concerns,


1     See, e.g., ECF 8, Resp. to Pl.’s Mot. to Add Party, at 19–21, n.13; ECF 9, Resp. to
      Pl.’s Mot. to Remand, at 6–8, n.6.


                                            1
      Case 1:26-cv-02006-SDG     Document 66     Filed 08/28/26   Page 2 of 6




undersigned asked Plaintiff’s counsel to respond to the allegation during a hearing

before the Court. The following exchange ensued:

            THE COURT: But I have a question for you, Mr. Johnson.
            Do you have a response to the allegations that some of
            those cases you cited are nonexistent or incorrectly cited
            the cases —

            MR. JOHNSON: I don’t have —

            THE COURT: Hold on. Let me finish my question . . .
            cited to the propositions that you represented it stood
            for?

            MR. JOHNSON: I do not have a response to that, Your
            Honor, today.

            THE COURT: You do not have a response?

            MR. JOHNSON: I don’t have it in front me to cross-
            reference what defense counsel’s talking about.

            THE COURT: Did you use any artificial intelligence tools
            to prepare your briefs?

            MR. JOHNSON: Not that I know of, Your Honor.

            THE COURT: Not that you know of?

            MR. JOHNSON: Yes, Your Honor.

            THE COURT: It seems like something that you would
            know.

            MR. JOHNSON: Yes, Your Honor.

            THE COURT: So did you or did you not?

            MR. JOHNSON: I did not, Your Honor.

            THE COURT: You’re representing to the Court that you
            did not use AI tools?


                                        2
          Case 1:26-cv-02006-SDG     Document 66     Filed 08/28/26   Page 3 of 6




                MR. JOHNSON: Yes, Your Honor. I did not use artificial
                intelligence.2

In his response to the Order to Show Cause, Plaintiff’s counsel now acknowledges

that he “consulted” AI tools in drafting filings he submitted to the Court. While

purporting to accept responsibility for his actions, Plaintiff’s counsel in the same

breath simultaneously deflects it by referring to the drafting as occurring by “this

office.”3 Then, in an entirely disingenuous attempt to explain why he lied to the

Court during the hearing, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “he did not understand

which cases the Court was asking about.”4 To make matters worse for himself,

counsel for Plaintiff expends half of his response to the Show Cause order

advocating for sanctions against Defendant’s counsel for an entirely unrelated

discovery matter that the Court has already addressed.

          The Court finds that counsel for Plaintiff, repeatedly, has lied to the Court.

Plaintiff’s counsel, as an officer of the Court, lied to this Court when he

misrepresented legal propositions based upon non-existent citations. He lied to

this Court when undersigned asked him whether he used any AI tools to prepare

his briefs (“I did not use artificial intelligence”). And now, he has lied to this Court




2   ECF 48, at 3–4 (emphasis supplied).
3   ECF 58, at 2.
4   Id.


                                             3
      Case 1:26-cv-02006-SDG       Document 66     Filed 08/28/26   Page 4 of 6




by feigning a lack of understanding of the Court’s very straightforward questions

about his AI use.

      Undersigned’s Standing Order, entered on the docket of this case, addresses

AI use as follows:

             Many courts and individual judges around the country
             have entered specific rules or procedures concerning the
             use of artificial intelligence tools. My rule is simple: You
             can use whatever AI tools you like, but only human
             beings will be held responsible for the outcome. So, if a
             pleading or paper that is filed in a case contains factual
             or legal errors, the party and lawyers who filed it will be
             held responsible. This includes each and every lawyer
             listed on the signature block of the filing. Govern
             yourself accordingly, as they say.5

The Court’s Order to Show Cause highlighted four purported cases cited by

Plaintiff’s counsel that represented the most egregious examples of fake, false, and

misleading case authorities. Counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to pay a fine of $1,000

for each of these fake, false, and misleading case authorities. In addition, this fine

will be doubled as a result of Plaintiff’s counsel’s lies to this Court. Accordingly,

Plaintiff’s counsel’s total fine for his repeated Rule 11 violations is $8,000, payable

to the registry of the Court.6 Plaintiff’s counsel’s fine is due within 30 days of this

Order.



5   ECF 5, at 30–31.
6   The Court recognizes that Defendant’s counsel has requested its attorneys’ fees
    as a sanction for Plaintiff’s counsel’s conduct in this regard since, as noted

                                          4
      Case 1:26-cv-02006-SDG      Document 66      Filed 08/28/26   Page 5 of 6




      As an additional sanction, the Court considered whether to order Plaintiff’s

counsel to attend CLE or training courses concerning his ethical obligations, both

generally as well as specifically in relation to AI use. But in responding to the

Order to Show Cause, counsel for Plaintiff represented to this Court that he has

already done so: “Counsel has enrolled in and completed targeted ethics and

technology CLE training, including ‘ChatGPT, Alexa, and Siri Are Out to Get

You!’”7 Therefore, in lieu of ordering additional training, counsel for Plaintiff is

ORDERED to file with the Court, within 7 days of this Order, documentation

verifying all “ethics and technology CLE training” courses that he has “enrolled in

and completed” between June 26 (the date of the Court’s hearing) and August 11

(the date of Plaintiff counsel’s Show Cause response), including but not limited to

the specific course identified in his response. The Court will determine whether

any additional sanctions are warranted after receiving Plaintiff’s counsel’s

response.



    previously, it was Defendant’s counsel who first raised this issue. However,
    the Court has determined that it would be difficult and cumbersome to
    equitably parse the specific attorneys’ fees expended by Defendant that are
    exclusively attributable to Plaintiff’s counsel’s fabricated case citations as
    opposed to responding to Plaintiff’s motions generally. The use of a court fine
    rather than a fee award is also in line with other sanction orders from this
    district and this circuit relating to the misuse of AI, which have recognized that
    a court fine serves not only as a deterrent, but also as a partial remedy for the
    taxpayer resources expended by the Court in addressing the misconduct.
7   ECF 58, at 2.


                                          5
      Case 1:26-cv-02006-SDG      Document 66       Filed 08/28/26   Page 6 of 6




      Conclusion

      The Court concludes that counsel for Plaintiff has repeatedly violated Rule

11, as described herein. As a sanction, counsel for Plaintiff is ORDERED to pay

$8,000 to the Court registry’s general sanctions fund, which the Clerk’s office shall

process as a sanctions payment. Plaintiff’s counsel shall include in the memo field

of his check a reference to the docket number of this case and the document

number of this Order. Plaintiff’s counsel shall make this payment within 30 days

of this Order. The Clerk of Court is DIRECTED to enter a notation on the docket

of this case after the payment has been received.

      Counsel for Plaintiff is further ORDERED, within 7 days of this Order, to

file on the docket of this case a Notice that attaches all documentation verifying

CLE training courses taken, as described above.

      The Clerk is further DIRECTED to submit this Order to undersigned after

7 days.

      SO ORDERED this 28th day of August, 2026.




                                                       Steven D. Grimberg
                                                    United States District Judge




                                         6
