 This grandfather was mistakenly identified as a Sunglass Hut robber by facial recognition software. He's suing after he was sexually assaulted in jail. - CBS News Latest U.S. Iran War Cornell Case World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio The Free Press Local News Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout Things That Matter The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds U.S. Iran War Cornell Case Midterms World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports The Free Press Watch CBS News U.S. This grandfather was mistakenly identified as a Sunglass Hut robber by facial recognition software. He's suing after he was sexually assaulted in jail. By Caitlin O'Kane Caitlin O'Kane Senior Manager, Social Media Production and Content Caitlin O'Kane is a New York City journalist who works on the CBS News social media team as a senior manager of content and production. She writes about a variety of topics and produces "The Uplift," CBS News' streaming show that focuses on good news. Read Full Bio Caitlin O'Kane January 24, 2024 / 12:27 PM EST / CBS News Add CBS News on Google A 61-year-old grandfather is suing Sunglass Hut's parent company after the store's facial recognition technology mistakenly identified him as a robber. Harvey Eugene Murphy Jr. was subsequently held in jail, where he says he was sexually assaulted, according to the lawsuit. The January 2022 robbery took place at a Sunglass Hut store in Houston, Texas, when two gun-wielding robbers stole thousands of dollars in cash and merchandise. Houston police identified Murphy as a suspect – even though he was living in California at the time. When Murphy returned to Texas to renew his driver's license, he was arrested. He was held in jail, where he says he was sexually assaulted by three men in a bathroom. He says he suffered lifelong injuries. The Harris County District Attorney's office in Texas determined Murphy was not involved in the robbery – but the damage was already done while he was in jail, his lawyers said in a news release. Facial recognition is often used to match faces in surveillance footage – such as video of a store robbery – with images in a database. The system often uses booking photos, but the software can also search driver's license photos , meaning if you have a license, your picture might have been searched even if you've never committed a crime. Murphy has a criminal record from the 1980s and 1990s, meaning he likely has a booking photo. His lawyers said those offenses were not violent and he has built a new life in the last 30 years, according to the press release. He is now suing Sunglass Hut's parent company EssilorLuxottica and Macy's, a partner of the company. The head of EssilorLuxottica's loss prevention team said they worked alongside Macy's and had identified Murphy as the suspect using facial recognition software. Murphy's attorneys are arguing that facial recognition is error-prone and low-quality cameras were used, increasing the probability of a mistake in identifying a suspect. A Sunglass Hut employee identified Murphy as the suspect in a police photo lineup – but Murphy's lawyers allege the loss prevention team met with her before that, possibly tainting the investigation. "Mr. Murphy's story is troubling for every citizen in this country," said Daniel Dutko, one of the lawyers representing Murphy. "Any person could be improperly charged with a crime based on error-prone facial recognition software just as he was." In facial recognition used by law enforcement offices like the FBI, complex mathematical algorithms are used to compare a picture of a suspect's face to potentially millions of others in a database. But it has its flaws. In 2023, the Federal Trade Commission banned Rite Aid from using the technology after the company's faulty system had employees wrongfully accusing shoppers of stealing. In one incident, an 11-year-old girl was stopped and searched by a Rite Aid employee based on a false match. The FTC said this faulty technology often incorrectly misidentifies Black, Asian, Latino and women consumers. In 2023, a woman sued the Detroit Police Department after authorities misidentified her as a carjacking suspect using facial recognition technology. Porcha Woodruff, who was eight months pregnant at the time of her wrongful arrest, went to jail after being incorrectly identified in a police lineup. Detroit Police Chief James White says Woodruff's photo should not been used in the lineup to begin with. CBS News reached out to EssilorLuxottica for comment is awaiting response. Macy's declined to comment. Murphy's lawyers had no additional comment. More from CBS News U.K. police accuse 2 Iranian men of planning terror attack on Manchester's Jewish community $1.7 million raised in scheme for Hamas, including from U.S. donors, feds say Hawley unveils bill aimed at stopping Flock camera abuse Photo of Jane Doe shared in Snapchat group on night of alleged rape Go deeper with The Free Press EXCLUSIVE: ‘The New York Times’ Sued by Shareholders Over Biased Israel Coverage I Built an AI Company. Here’s Why AI Won’t Kill Coding Jobs. In: Facial Recognition © 2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. CBS Reports - City Under Surveillance 26:42 CBS Reports - City Under Surveillance (26:42) U.K. police accuse 2 Iranian men of planning terror attack on Manchester's Jewish community $1.7 million raised in scheme for Hamas, including from U.S. donors, feds say Hawley unveils bill aimed at stopping Flock camera abuse EXCLUSIVE: ‘The New York Times’ Sued by Shareholders Over Biased Israel Coverage Featured Political News Iran War Latest NFL Scores College Football Rankings Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Minors' Privacy Policy More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Contact the Ombudsman Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue 