441 G St. N.W.                                                                     Comptroller General
Washington, DC 20548                                                               of the United States


                                                  DOCUMENT FOR PUBLIC RELEASE
                                               The decision issued on the date below was subject to

Decision                                       a GAO Protective Order. This redacted version has
                                               been approved for public release.



Matter of:   CVTEK, LLC

File:        B-423943; B-423943.2

Date:        February 12, 2026

Michelle F. Kantor, Esq., and Daniel Schoeni, Esq., McDonald Hopkins LLC, for the
protester.
Jonathan T. Williams, Esq., Katherine B. Burrows, Esq., Josephine R. Farinelli, Esq.,
and Kelly A. Kirchgasser, Esq., Piliero Mazza PLLC, for Spatial Front, Inc., the
intervenor.
Richard W. Postma, Jr., Esq., and Jessica A. Easton, Esq., Department of Homeland
Security, for the agency.
Jungi Hong, Esq., Samantha S. Lee, Esq., and Peter H. Tran, Esq., Office of the
General Counsel, GAO, participated in the preparation of the decision.
DIGEST

1. Protest alleging the awardee engaged in a “bait and switch” of key personnel is
denied where the record does not support the allegation.

2. Protest that agency failed to assess the awardee’s responsibility is denied where
there is no requirement that an agency determine responsibility prior to issuing a task
order when a responsibility determination was made at the time of the award of the
infinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contract.
DECISION

CVTEK, LLC, a small business of McLean, Virginia, protests the issuance of a task
order to Spatial Front, Inc. (SFI), a small business of Bethesda, Maryland, under
request for proposals (RFP) No. 70SBUR25R00000009, issued by the Department of
Homeland Security, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) for information
technology support services. The protester challenges the agency’s evaluation of
proposals and resulting source selection decision.

We deny the protest.
BACKGROUND

On May 8, 2025, under the fair opportunity procedures of Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR) subpart 16.5, the agency issued the solicitation to holders of
indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) contracts under the General Services
Administration’s (GSA) 8(a) 1 Streamlined Technology Acquisition Resource for Services
(STARS) III governmentwide acquisition contract (GWAC) vehicle. Agency Report
(AR), Exh. 17, RFP at 5; 2 Contracting Officer’s Statement (COS) at 1-2. The agency
sought proposals to manage and provide technical operations and support services to
maintain and enhance operations and maintenance capabilities at USCIS’s Technical
Operations Center (TOC) in Stennis, Mississippi. AR, Exh. 18, Performance Work
Statement (PWS) at 4-5; COS at 1.

The solicitation contemplated issuance of a hybrid time-and-materials and fixed-price
type task order with one 8-month base period, four 12-month option periods, and a final
4-month option period for a total of 60 months. RFP at 2-4, 47; COS at 1. The RFP
provided for award to be made on a best-value tradeoff basis, considering four
evaluation factors, listed in descending order of importance: (1) corporate experience;
(2) staffing matrix; (3) operational approach; and (4) price. RFP at 86-88; COS at 1.
When combined, the non-price factors are significantly more important than price. RFP
at 87. The RFP provided for proposals to be submitted in two phases, addressing
corporate experience in phase I and the three other evaluation factors in phase II. Id.
at 86-88. For each non-price factor, USCIS would assess its “confidence level” and
assign a corresponding adjectival rating of “high confidence,” “some confidence,” or “low
confidence.” 3 Id. at 89.

The agency received eighteen phase I proposals, including those submitted by CVTEK
and SFI, by the June 2, deadline for submission. AR, Exh. 42, Award Decision

1
 Section 8(a) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. § 637(a), authorizes the Small
Business Administration to enter into contracts with government agencies and to
arrange for the performance through subcontracts with socially and economically
disadvantaged small business concerns. FAR 19.800. Firms participating in this
program are commonly referred to as “8(a)” contractors. The STARS III GWAC is an
8(a) set-aside vehicle. 8(a) STARS III, https://www.gsa.gov/technology/it-contract-
vehicles-and-purchasing-programs/gwacs/8a-stars-iii (last visited Jan. 29, 2026).
2
 Citations to the record refer to the documents’ internal Adobe PDF pagination. The
RFP was amended four times; reference to the RFP is to the conformed version at
exhibit 17 of the agency report.
3
  The solicitation defined the rating of “high confidence” as one where the government
has “high confidence that the offeror understands the requirement and proposes a
sound approach that significantly increases the likelihood of success in performing the
requirements within the PWS with little or no” government intervention. RFP at 89. For
                                                                             (continued...)


Page 2                                                                 B-423943; B-423943.2
Document at 3-4. Following the phase I evaluation, USCIS issued an advisory “down-
select” notice to four offerors, including CVTEK and SFI, to proceed to phase II. Id.;
RFP at 82-83; COS at 2. The table below summarizes the agency’s evaluation of
CVTEK’s and SFI’s proposals for both phases:

                                         CVTEK                            SFI
    Corporate Experience            High Confidence               High Confidence
    Staffing Matrix                 Some Confidence               Some Confidence
    Operational Approach            High Confidence               High Confidence
    Price                             $43,340,052                   $39,205,459

AR, Exh. 42, Award Decision Document at 3-4. The contracting officer, serving as the
source selection authority decided that SFI’s proposal was the most advantageous to the
government and selected its proposal for award. Id. at 13. USCIS issued the task order
to SFI on September 12. AR, Exh. 43, Award Notification Emails to Spatial Front. This
protest followed. 4

DISCUSSION

The protester raises several objections to the evaluation of proposals. CVTEK
contends the awardee engaged in an impermissible “bait and switch” by relying on a
proposed program manager (PM) and deputy program manager (DPM) for the firm’s
oral presentation that CVTEK never intended to provide. Protest at 2, 9. In the
alternative, the protester contends that the agency relaxed a material requirement for
the task order place of performance by accepting SFI’s proposed PM and DPM. Supp.
Protest at 8-12. The protester also alleges that the agency failed to properly evaluate
Spatial Front’s responsibility to perform the contract before selecting Spatial Front for
award. Supp. Protest at 3-6. While we do not discuss all of CVTEK’s challenges
regarding the evaluation of proposals and the resulting tradeoff, we have considered
them all and conclude none provides a basis to sustain the protest. 5


a rating of “some confidence,” the definition was the same except that the government
has “some confidence” that the offeror is “likely” to be successful in performing with
“some” government intervention. Id. The same definition applied to a rating of “low
confidence,” except that the government has “low confidence” that the offeror is “likely”
to be successful in performing “even with” government intervention. Id.
4
 The value of the issued task order exceeds $10 million, therefore, this protest is within
our jurisdiction to hear protests of task orders placed under civilian agency IDIQ
contracts. 41 U.S.C. § 4106(f)(B)(2).
5
 For example, CVTEK alleges, the agency “failed to promulgate clear evaluation
criteria, failed to provide guiding procedures to the Evaluation Team, and failed to
document those criteria in the record. At a minimum, the Agency either did not follow its
                                                                             (continued...)


Page 3                                                                 B-423943; B-423943.2
Program Management

The protester raises two challenges to the awardee’s approach to program
management personnel--specifically, the awardee’s proposed PM and DPM. Protest at
4-5; Supp. Protest at 8-12. Both CVTEK’s primary argument and its argument in the
alternative hinge on CVTEK’s contention that the solicitation requires the PM and DPM
to perform their duties on site at the TOC in Stennis, Mississippi. Id.

         Bait and Switch

The protester primarily alleges the awardee engaged in an impermissible “bait and
switch” by relying on a PM and DPM for the firm’s proposal that SFI never intended to
provide during performance. Protest at 4-5. The agency denies that the protester has
established that the awardee misrepresented its approach to performance or that the
agency relied on any such misrepresentation. MOL at 4-15.

The issue of whether personnel identified in an offeror’s proposal will, in fact, perform
under the subsequently-awarded contract is generally a matter of contract
administration that our Office does not review. Patricio Enters. Inc., B-412738,
B-412738.2, May 26, 2016, 2016 CPD ¶ 145 at 4; see Bid Protest Regulations, 4 C.F.R.
§ 21.5(a). Nonetheless, our Office will consider allegations that an offeror proposed
personnel that it did not have a reasonable basis to expect to provide during contract
performance in order to obtain a more favorable evaluation, because such a material
misrepresentation has an adverse effect on the integrity of the competitive procurement
system. Patricio Enters. Inc., supra at 4. Our decisions frequently refer to such
circumstances as a “bait and switch.” Id. To establish an impermissible bait and switch,
a protester must show that: (1) the awardee either knowingly or negligently represented
that it would rely on specific personnel that it did not have a reasonable basis to expect

stated evaluation framework or failed to preserve and produce it.” Supp. Protest at 7.
The agency requested that we dismiss CVTEK’s allegation as factually and legally
insufficient. Supp. Memorandum of Law (MOL) at 9.
Our Bid Protest Regulations require that protests include a detailed statement of the
legal and factual grounds of protest and that the grounds be legally sufficient. 4 C.F.R.
§ 21.1(c)(4) and (f). This requirement contemplates that protesters will provide, at a
minimum, credible allegations that are supported by evidence and are sufficient, if
uncontradicted, to establish the likelihood of the protester’s claim of improper agency
action. Warfighter Focused Logistics, Inc., B-423546; B-423546.2, Aug. 5, 2025,
2025 CPD ¶ 169 at 4. Protesters must provide more than a bare allegation; the
allegation must be supported by some explanation that establishes the likelihood that
the protester will prevail in its claim of improper agency action. Id.
Other than this broad and conclusory assertion of improper action, the initial protest
provides no information to support the bald assertion that USCIS denied CVTEK a fair
opportunity to compete. As such, we dismiss, without further discussion, this
unsupported speculation as failing to state a valid basis of protest.


Page 4                                                                 B-423943; B-423943.2
to furnish during contract performance; (2) the misrepresentation was relied on by the
agency; and (3) the agency’s reliance had a material effect on the evaluation results.
Id.

Section 6.5 of the PWS identifies the task order’s key personnel positions, including the
PM and DPM roles. PWS at 31-33. The solicitation did not require offerors to include
resumes for personnel at the time of proposal submission, nor did the RFP provide for
the evaluation of proposed personnel against the minimum experience and
qualifications for the roles. See RFP at 84-85. Under the operational approach
evaluation factor, however, offerors were required to participate in oral presentations,
and the solicitation specified that “Key Personnel of the offeror’s choosing should be
participants in the oral presentation event.” RFP at 84. To that end, ahead of the oral
presentations, offerors were required to submit “the name, current employer/company,
intended roles on the task order and e-mails” for the participants. Id.

For its oral presentation, SFI relied on five participants, including its proposed PM and
DPM, who we identify as S and R, respectively. AR, Exh. 36, Emails re SFI Oral
Presentation at 3; Intervenor Comments, exh. 1, Declarations of S and R at 2-3.
According to CVTEK, in so doing, SFI materially misrepresented its personnel for the
PM and DPM roles. Protest at 7-8. To support this protest argument, CVTEK argues
that the solicitation requires the PM and DPM to perform their duties at the TOC in
Stennis, Mississippi. Protest at 5,7. Because SFI’s proposed PM and DPM are based
in Maryland, CVTEK alleges that the awardee knew its proposed PM and DPM would
not relocate to Mississippi, and thus S and R would not perform these roles. Instead,
the protester asserts that it was always SFI’s intent to recruit its key personnel from
ValidaTek’s incumbent staff. 6

As an initial matter, USCIS contests the third element of a bait and switch allegation,
i.e., whether any reliance on the proposed key personnel had a material effect on the
evaluation. The agency contends key personnel were not a material requirement
because the solicitation did not provide for the evaluation of key personnel resumes.
MOL at 9-10. Therefore, the agency argues that any misrepresentation regarding who
would fill the PM and DPM roles was not material to the agency’s evaluation. Id.

As our Office has stated, proposed key personnel can be considered material even if
not explicitly required by the RFP, especially where the overall acceptability of the
proposal is based in part on the awardee’s approach to providing key personnel who
are capable and available at the start of performance. Patricio Enters. Inc., supra
at 12-14. Here, the solicitation identified the PM and DPM positions as key personnel,
and that key personnel were important parts of the oral presentations, which were
assessed for confidence under the operational approach factor. RFP at 84. The record
also reflects that SFI proposed S and R, as the firm’s PM and DPM, respectively.
Intervenor Comments, exh. 1, Declarations of S and R at 2-3. Although the RFP did not

6
  CVTEK is a joint venture between Choisys Technology Inc. and ValidaTek, Inc., the
incumbent contractor. Protest at 2; AR, Exh. 7, Q&A at 6 (Question 80).


Page 5                                                                 B-423943; B-423943.2
explicitly provide for evaluating key personnel resumes against the minimum
qualifications for the roles, we cannot conclude that SFI’s proposed PM and DPM were
not material to the evaluation because of the extent to which the solicitation involved
key personnel in the oral presentation. See Patricio Enters. Inc., supra at 13-14. As
noted, the RFP told offerors that key personnel “should” participate in the oral
presentation and that offerors “shall” send the names and intended roles of the
participants prior to the oral presentation. RFP at 84. The agency evaluated SFI’s
approach based on its overall approach to the presentation, which included the
identification of, and knowledge demonstrated by, the proposed PM and DPM. AR,
Exh. 42, Award Decision Document at 9 (noting SFI’s strong presentation, knowledge,
and prior experience). Under the unique circumstances here, the awardee’s use of its
proposed key personnel during the oral presentation had a material effect on the
evaluation of proposals under the operational approach factor.

In any event, the protester has failed to establish the remaining elements of a bait and
switch. Specifically, the protester has not established that the awardee either knowingly
or negligently represented that it would rely on specific personnel that the firm did not
have a reasonable basis to expect to furnish during contract performance based on
place of performance.

The agency argues that the basic premise of the protester’s argument--that the
proposed key personnel were required to be located in Stennis--is simply wrong. In this
regard, the agency explains the RFP required work to be performed at two primary
locations, the TOC in Stennis, Mississippi “and/or” USCIS’s headquarters in Camp
Springs, Maryland. Id. at 5-6 (citing to PWS section 6.3). Because the solicitation
allowed the key personnel to perform their duties at a location in Maryland, which is the
state where the key personnel reside, the agency argues there is no support for
CVTEK’s speculation that the awardee did not in fact intend to use the proposed
individuals during performance. SFI argues in support of the agency’s position that the
solicitation allows for performance at either location and also provided declarations from
the proposed PM and DPM stating that they are still employed by SFI and would work at
either Stennis or Camp Springs in accordance with the solicitation. Intervenor
Comments at 5; id., exh. 1, Declarations of S and R at 2-3.

When a dispute exists as to a solicitation’s requirements, we will first examine the plain
language of the solicitation and will resolve the dispute by reading the solicitation as a
whole and in a manner that gives effect to all of its provisions. CMSoft, Inc., B-419370,
Jan. 26, 2021, 2021 CPD ¶ 36 at 4. To be reasonable, and therefore valid, an
interpretation must be consistent with the solicitation when read as a whole and in a
reasonable manner. Id.; Crew Training Int’l, Inc., B-414126, Feb. 7, 2017, 2017 CPD
¶ 53 at 4. If the solicitation is unambiguous our inquiry ceases; an ambiguity exists,
however, where two or more reasonable interpretations of the terms of the solicitation
are possible. CMSoft, Inc., supra at 4; Perimeter Sec. Partners, LLC, B-422666.4,
Mar. 11, 2025, 2025 CPD ¶ 72 at 5.




Page 6                                                                 B-423943; B-423943.2
Here, the plain language of the solicitation contradicts the protester’s contention that the
PM and DMP had to be at the Stennis location. The PWS unequivocally informed
offerors that, for this task order, USCIS expected work performance at Stennis “and/or”
Camp Springs. PWS at 31. More specifically, section 6.3 of the PWS states, in
relevant part:

         At the discretion of the TOC Federal Manager, work will be performed at
         the USCIS Technical Operations Center (TOC) which is located within the
         Enterprise Operations Center (EOC) at 9313 Cypress Loop Road, Stennis
         Space Center, MS 39529, and/or in the National Capital Region at USCIS
         HQC 5900 Capital Gateway Drive, Camp Springs, MD 20746. Both are
         government owned facilities. For Continuity of Operations, the contractor
         shall be prepared to provide resources at both facilities. The numbers of
         personnel at each site will be based on operational necessities as
         determined by the TOC Federal Manager.

PWS at 31.

Again, CVTEK’s protest argument depends on its contention that the RFP required
offerors to locate their PM and DPM “onsite” at the TOC in Stennis. Protest at 7;
Comments at 5-6. As explained, however, the solicitation did not expressly require
offerors to provide their PM or DPM in Stennis. Rather, the PWS clearly establishes
that the TOC Federal Manager can allow the contractor to perform at the TOC in
Stennis or at the USCIS headquarters in Camp Springs. PWS at 31. 7 This protest
argument is denied.




7
  The protester argues that the RFP’s amended staffing matrix provides context for the
“onsite” requirement. Comments at 6-7. The record reflects that attachment 4 to the
RFP is an amended price worksheet with a staffing matrix. AR, Exh. 21, Attachment 4
Staffing Matrix Price Worksheet. In this regard, the staffing matrix lists the locations of
two key personnel positions as “Onsite (Camp Springs)” and four other positions simply
as “Onsite.” Id. at 2. Because the solicitation contains the parenthetical “Onsite (Camp
Springs),” CVTEK argues that Stennis must be the default location when the
designation “Onsite” is used by itself. Comments at 6.

The agency explains that the “onsite” designations in the matrix simply distinguish
between positions eligible for telework and those required to be onsite in Stennis or
Camp Springs. Specifically, there were two positions (network support specialists) that
were required to be onsite at Camp Springs. Supp. MOL at 14; AR, Exh. 22, Q&A at 2;
PWS at 17 (requiring offerors to “assign at least two (2) individuals” at Camp Springs to
serve as liaisons during emergencies). Thus, we find no basis to credit the protester’s
allegation and subsequent arguments about the meaning of “onsite” in the solicitation.


Page 7                                                                  B-423943; B-423943.2
         Material Requirement

CVTEK argues in the alternative that, in accepting SFI’s proposed key personnel
approach, the agency waived a material requirement for the PM and DPM to perform
onsite in Stennis, Mississippi. Supp. Protest at 8. Specifically, CVTEK alleges that the
solicitation required the PM and DPM be “onsite” at Stennis, and USCIS “later waived or
relaxed that requirement when SFI could not meet it.” Id.

Clearly stated RFP requirements are considered material to the needs of the
government, and a proposal that fails to conform to material terms is unacceptable and
may not form the basis for award. National Shower Express, Inc.; Rickaby Fire Support,
B-293970, B-293970.2, July 15, 2004, 2004 CPD ¶ 140 at 4-5. It is a fundamental
principle in a negotiated procurement that a proposal that fails to conform to a material
solicitation requirement is unacceptable. The Boeing Co., B-311344 et al., June 18,
2008, 2008 CPD ¶ 114 at 54.

As set forth above, there is no reasonable basis for the protester’s interpretation of the
solicitation as requiring “onsite” roles to perform only as Stennis. Thus, we find no merit
to CVTEK’s argument that the agency impermissibly relaxed any requirement--let alone
a material one--that mandated the PM and DPM roles be performed exclusively onsite
at the Stennis facility.

Responsibility Determination

The protester next contends the agency “failed to make a full responsibility inquiry and
determination” under FAR part 9 before issuing the task order to SFI. Supp. Protest
at 3. Specifically, CVTEK alleges the USCIS did not consider evidence that bears
strongly on the awardee’s responsibility arising out of SFI’s performance of a contract
for the Federal Aviation Administration. Id. at 3-4.

The agency responds that the determination of the awardee’s responsibility was made
at the time that GSA awarded SFI a contract under the 8(a) STARS III IDIQ GWAC.
Supp. MOL at 3-4. According to USCIS, because the agency did not specify that it
would conduct an independent responsibility determination in the solicitation, USCIS
was not required to make a new responsibility determination under FAR part 9, prior to
issuing the task order here. We agree with the agency.

Responsibility, in the context of federal acquisitions, refers to the ability of a prospective
contractor to perform the contract for which it has submitted an offer; by law, a
contracting officer must determine that an offeror is responsible before awarding it a
contract. See 41 U.S.C. § 3303(a); see also 41 U.S.C. § 637; FAR 9.103(a), (b). A
contracting officer is also required to obtain sufficient information, including from the
offeror itself, before making a responsibility determination. FAR 9.105-1. Our Office
has explained, however, that there is no requirement that an agency conduct an
additional responsibility determination when issuing a task order under an IDIQ contract,
since a responsibility determination was already made at the time of award of the



Page 8                                                                   B-423943; B-423943.2
underlying IDIQ contract. 8 Booz Allen Hamilton, Inc., B-409272 et al., Feb. 25, 2014,
2014 CPD ¶ 84 at 5.

Here, the competition was conducted among offerors that held the 8(a) GSA STARS III
IDIQ contracts, and the RFP did not provide for a separate responsibility determination.
RFP at 1. Once an offeror has been determined to be responsible and is awarded the
underlying IDIQ contract--as here--there is no requirement that an agency conduct an
additional responsibility determination when issuing a task order. Consequently, we find
no merit to CVTEK’s argument, and this allegation is denied. GovCIO, LLC,
B-421290.6 et al., Sep. 11, 2024, 2024 CPD ¶ 254 at 19-20.

Inaccurate Legal Citations

In reviewing the protester’s submissions to our Office, we identified a number of
irregularities in the citations provided by CVTEK in its supplemental protest. In some
instances, we were unable to locate decisions that matched the citation provided by the
protester, and some decisions matching either the B-number or Comptroller General’s
Procurement Decisions (CPD) citation did not appear to state the proposition for which
the protester cited the decision.

As a result, we asked the protester to address the basis for the citations and to either
provide copies of the cited decisions or explain why the protester was unable to provide
copies of the cited decisions. Notice of Required Protester Resp. at 1. In response,
one of the protester’s attorneys confirmed that he used Westlaw’s AI (artificial
intelligence) tool, CoCounsel, in preparing the supplemental protest. Resp. to GAO
at 1. The protester’s attorneys expressly acknowledged that “some of the citations
provided by Westlaw CoCounsel were erroneous.” Id. Although, the attorney who used
the AI tool indicates that he identified some irregularities and attempted to correct them,
the attorney admittedly failed to correct all the erroneous citations in the final
supplemental protest filed with our Office. Id. at 1-2. CVTEK’s counsel apologized and
took full responsibility for the errors, explaining that new protocols have been
implemented to ensure that “all case citations will be manually verified.” Id. at 2-3;
Supp. Resp. to GAO at 1-2.

As the courts and our forum have explained, “there is nothing inherently wrong with . . .
properly and competently utilizing AI or any of its subsets to practice law or litigate
cases,” but that “the evolving technology has many glitches (including hallucinations)
and does not always work properly or as expected,” and “[t]his is why close and careful
attorney supervision, fact-checking, and citation-checking are absolute necessities

8
  Moreover, our Office generally does not review an affirmative determination of
responsibility absent a showing of failure to properly apply definitive responsibility
criteria, or where the protester identifies evidence raising serious concerns that, in
reaching the responsibility determination, the agency unreasonably failed to consider
available relevant information or otherwise violated statute or regulation. 4 C.F.R.
§ 21.5(c); Bannum, Inc., B-408838, Dec. 11, 2013, 2013 CPD ¶ 288 at 4.


Page 9                                                                 B-423943; B-423943.2
when utilizing AI or any of its subsets.” KE Sys. Servs., Inc., B-423881 et al., Dec. 22,
2025, at 6; Oready, LLC, B-423524.2, Aug. 13, 2025, 2025 CPD ¶ 194 at 7 (both citing
Versant Funding LLC v. Teras Breakbulk Ocean Navigation Enters., LLC, No. 17-cv-
81140, 2025 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 98418 at *11 (S.D. Fl. May 20, 2025).

In order to satisfy our statutory mandate to resolve protests expeditiously and to
maintain our role as a meaningful, efficient protest forum, we expect all parties to
prepare and present their cases carefully and diligently. Wolverton Prop. Mgmt., LLC--
Recon., B-415295.4, June 6, 2018, 2018 CPD ¶ 205 at 3. The use of AI tools to draft or
assist in drafting legal filings can result in the citation of non-existent decisions, such
that reliance on those programs without review for accuracy wastes the time of all
parties and GAO. Raven Investigations & Sec. Consulting, LLC, B-423447, May 7,
2025, 2025 CPD ¶ 81 at 4.

As we have explained, our Office necessarily reserves an inherent right to dismiss any
protest and to impose sanctions against a protester, where a protester’s actions
undermine the integrity and effectiveness of our process. Id. Here, because we deny
this protest, we do not exercise our right to impose sanctions for submission of non-
existent citations. The protester, however, is advised that any future submission of
filings to our Office with citations to non-existent authority may, after a review of the
totality of the circumstances, result in the imposition of sanctions.

The protest is denied.

Edda Emmanuelli Perez
General Counsel




Page 10                                                                B-423943; B-423943.2
