             Case 1:26-cv-04427       Document 1         Filed 05/28/26   Page 1 of 54




                            UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                          SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

CABLE NEWS NETWORK, INC.,

                     Plaintiff,                     Civil Action No. 1:26-cv-4427

       v.                                           COMPLAINT

PERPLEXITY AI, INC.,                                JURY TRIAL DEMANDED

                     Defendant.




        Plaintiff Cable News Network, Inc. (“CNN”), by and through its attorneys, Rothwell, Figg,

 Ernst & Manbeck, P.C., respectfully brings this Complaint against Defendant Perplexity AI, Inc.

 (“Perplexity” or “Defendant”).

                                  NATURE OF THE ACTION

        1.     Since its founding in 1980, CNN has transformed modern journalism. As the first

 cable news network to provide continuous, 24-hour coverage, CNN pioneered live reporting of

 major events from around the world. For more than four decades, CNN has invested heavily in

 original reporting that would not exist absent CNN’s commitment to journalism and newsgathering.

 CNN’s history reflects that commitment. In 1986, CNN was the only network broadcasting live

 coverage of the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster. Forty years later, in 2026, CNN was one of the

 few major news organizations reporting directly from Tehran during the war in Iran. CNN’s ability

 to deploy correspondents across the globe—often in dangerous and rapidly evolving conditions—

 demonstrates its longstanding dedication to accurate, timely, and on-the-ground reporting. Through

 its large-scale and unlawful copying and distribution of CNN’s copyrighted content, Perplexity has

 appropriated the benefits of CNN’s substantial investments in journalism to develop and market

                                                     1
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427              Document 1          Filed 05/28/26          Page 2 of 54




competing commercial products, without authorization or compensation. By exploiting CNN’s

reporting in this manner, Perplexity violates the protections afforded by copyright law and

undermines the economic incentives that make original newsgathering possible. CNN brings this

action to hold Perplexity accountable for its unlawful conduct.

           2.       Perplexity is a generative artificial intelligence (“GenAI”) company that describes its

namesake chatbot as an “answer engine.”1 According to Perplexity, “[w]hen you ask Perplexity a

question, it uses advanced AI to search the internet in real-time, gathering insights from top-tier

sources. It then distills this information into a clear, concise summary, delivering exactly what you

need in an easy-to-understand, conversational tone.”2 Perplexity explains that once it “interpret[s]

your question,” it then “searches the internet, gathering information from authoritative sources like

articles, websites, and journals.”3 What Perplexity characterizes as “gathering” involves copying

news and other content and combining it with a Large Language Model (“LLM”) to produce lengthy

and expressive output derived from copyrighted content that is owned by others. By doing this work,

Perplexity purports to save users’ time and energy and eliminate the need for its users themselves to

visit the websites from which Perplexity derives its “answers.”4

           3.       In describing “what sets Perplexity apart,” Perplexity touts that while “[t]raditional

search engines present you with lots of links to sift through. Perplexity functions as an intelligent

research assistant, streamlining your information gathering by delivering the precise knowledge you




1
    Perplexity, Getting Started, https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/getting-started (last visited May 27, 2026).
2
 Perplexity, How does Perplexity work?, https://www.perplexity.ai/help-center/en/articles/10352895-how-does-
perplexity-work (last visited May 27, 2026).
3
    Id.
4
 Perplexity Team, Getting Started with Perplexity, Perplexity (Oct. 1, 2024),
https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/blog/getting-started-with-perplexity.



                                                              2
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427              Document 1          Filed 05/28/26             Page 3 of 54




need without the extra steps and clicks.”5 To bypass the “extra steps and clicks,” upon information

and belief, Perplexity accesses as much content as it can from CNN and other sources of trusted,

original, and reliable information. Indeed, as recently as August 2024, Perplexity boasted that its

“answer engine” allowed users to “Skip the links” by providing “a single, comprehensive answer

that summarizes everything you need to know.” See Dow Jones & Co., Inc. & NYP Holdings, Inc.

v. Perplexity AI, Inc., No. 1:24-cv-07984-KPF, at Dkt. 46 n.1 (S.D.N.Y. Jan. 28, 2025). Although

Perplexity appears to have removed the “Skip the links” catchphrase from its promotional material,

this core practice remains.

           4.       Perplexity then makes copies of that content to store in its “AI-First” search index

and to feed to its suite of retrieval-augmented generation or “RAG” products, including its consumer

chatbot, referred to by Perplexity as its “answer engine”;6 enterprise chatbot;7 application

programming interfaces (“APIs”); 8 and personal assistants (e.g., the Comet browser)9 (collectively,

“Perplexity’s GenAI Products”). Perplexity then repackages the original content in written responses

to users. Those responses, or outputs, often are verbatim or near-verbatim reproductions, summaries,

or abridgements of the original content, including CNN’s copyrighted works.

           5.       Although Perplexity has a free standard tier, it offers paid plans, including Perplexity

Pro, Enterprise Pro, and Enterprise Max. These paid plans offer, inter alia, “deeper sourcing from

Perplexity’s index,” “search across the web, team files, and work apps,” “2x file uploads,” and “deep



5
  Perplexity, What is Perplexity, https://www.perplexity.ai/help-center/en/articles/10352155-what-is-perplexity (last
visited May 27, 2026).
6
    Perplexity, Answer Engine, https://www.perplexity.ai/ (last visited May 27, 2026).
7
    Perplexity, Enterprise, https://www.perplexity.ai/enterprise (last visited May 27, 2026).
8
 Perplexity, API Platform, https://www.perplexity.ai/api-platform (last visited May 27, 2026); Perplexity Research,
Architecting and Evaluating an AI-First Search API (Sept. 25, 2025), https://research.perplexity.ai/articles/architecting-
and-evaluating-an-ai-first-search-api.
9
    Perplexity, Comet, https://www.perplexity.ai/comet (last visited May 27, 2026).



                                                              3
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427              Document 1           Filed 05/28/26         Page 4 of 54




research at any scale.”10 Perplexity solicits users by touting its news gathering abilities, sending

unprompted emails with the following solicitation:




           6.       Perplexity’s chatbot provides suggestions for how its chatbot can be used to gather

news. For example, if you ask Perplexity’s chatbot, “Can Perplexity help gather news?” Perplexity

responds with the following:




10
     Perplexity, Enterprise Pricing, https://www.perplexity.ai/enterprise/pricing (last visited May 27, 2026).



                                                              4
             Case 1:26-cv-04427        Document 1        Filed 05/28/26      Page 5 of 54




       7.      Perplexity’s conduct violates CNN’s exclusive rights under the Copyright Act at two

principal stages: First, at the input stage, Perplexity unlawfully crawls, scrapes, copies, and

distributes CNN’s content from CNN Digital Platforms and third-party platforms using software

programs, including “PerplexityBot” and “Perplexity-User,” to build an AI-First search index and

to provide CNN’s content in real time as input to LLMs to formulate responses to users’ prompts.

And second, at the output stage, when Perplexity’s GenAI Products generate outputs that are

identical or substantially similar to CNN’s content. Upon information and belief, Perplexity has

unlawfully copied over 17,000 CNN stories, videos, images, and other works to power its products

and tools.

       8.      In addition to its massive copyright infringement, Perplexity also violates CNN’s

trademarks under the Lanham Act by falsely claiming an affiliation between Perplexity and CNN

that does not exist. Perplexity’s GenAI products generate fabricated content that claims that its users

can pay to upgrade and get access to CNN’s premium content, when no such option exists. Thus,

Perplexity uses CNN’s famous, registered trademarks and falsely attributes an affiliation between

Perplexity and CNN to its users which causes confusion. Perplexity likewise violates CNN’s

trademarks under the Lanham Act when its GenAI Products misleadingly omit or modify portions

of CNN’s content without disclosing those omissions or modifications and display the inaccurate

reproductions alongside CNN’s famous trademarks. Perplexity also violates CNN’s trademarks

under the Lanham Act in connection with the generation and distribution of confabulated or

“hallucinated” content that Perplexity falsely attributes to CNN. Perplexity’s use of CNN’s

trademarks constitutes false designations of origin, infringement, and dilution by confusing and

deceiving Perplexity users into believing that users may lawfully access CNN’s content on




                                                  5
             Case 1:26-cv-04427        Document 1        Filed 05/28/26      Page 6 of 54




Perplexity and/or by generating undisclosed omissions, modifications, or hallucinations that it

claims are associated with, sponsored by, or approved by CNN.

                                          THE PARTIES

       9.      Plaintiff CNN is a global 24-hour news organization that owns and operates

numerous news networks and services, including the 24-hour CNN channel in the United States,

CNN International globally and CNN en Español. CNN also operates global digital platforms that

provide access to original news coverage and other features, which are available on CNN.com CNN

All Access, CNN’s subscription digital service and numerous other international, regional, and

specialized digital platforms (collectively, “CNN Digital Platforms”). CNN owns registered

copyrights for over 17,000 articles and digital content, including the articles (and other works)

contained in the registrations set forth in Exhibit A (“CNN Works”).

       10.     CNN is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business at 1050 Techwood

Drive NW, Atlanta, GA 30303. CNN is ultimately a wholly owned subsidiary of Warner Bros.

Discovery, Inc.

       11.     Defendant Perplexity is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business

at 115 Sansome Street, Suite 900, San Francisco, California 94104.

                                 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

       12.     This civil action seeks damages, injunctive relief, and other equitable relief under the

Copyright Act of 1976, 17 U.S.C. § 101 et seq., and the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1051 et seq.

       13.     This Court has subject matter jurisdiction over this civil action under 28 U.S.C. §§

1331 and 1338.

       14.     As set forth in this section and further supported in the “Factual Allegations” below,

this Court has personal jurisdiction over Perplexity pursuant to New York Civil Practice Law and




                                                  6
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427              Document 1           Filed 05/28/26         Page 7 of 54




Rules § 302(a)(1)–(4) and the Due Process Clause of the U.S. Constitution. In multiple

independently sufficient ways, Perplexity has purposely availed itself of the privilege of doing

business in the State of New York and subjected itself to New York’s long-arm jurisdiction.

           15.      Since April 21, 2023, Perplexity has been registered to do business in the State of

New York. Perplexity’s New York Department of State identification number is 6837808.

           16.      Perplexity uses real property situated within this State and District, including office

space in Manhattan, which is utilized for the conduct of its business as outlined in this Complaint.

Perplexity states on its website, “You’ll find our teams collaborating in offices across Palo Alto,

New York,” among other locations, and “our in-person team members spend 4 days a week in the

office . . ..”11 On or about February 18, 2025, Perplexity’s Work Experience Manager, Tram Anh

Phun, submitted a declaration in the Dow Jones litigation confirming that “Perplexity rents office

space from Industrious, a co-working facility, located at 215 Park Avenue South, 11th Floor, New

York, New York 10003.” See Dow Jones, at Dkt. 49, at 8 (S.D.N.Y. Feb. 18, 2025). As further

described below, this Court found Perplexity’s office space in New York, in addition to other factors,

to weigh in favor of exercising jurisdiction over Perplexity. See id., at Dkt. 65, 2025 WL 2416401

(S.D.N.Y. Aug. 21, 2025).

           17.      In February 2026, Perplexity was reported to have expanded its total office space

occupancy to 22,000 square feet in Manhattan.12 Reflecting on its expansive office space, Nathan

Barksdale, General Counsel and Vice President of Operations at Perplexity stated: “The connected

space gives us the visibility and flexibility we were looking for, and we’re excited to see how it




11
     Perplexity, Help us build the future of discovery, https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/careers (last visited May 27, 2026).
12
  Max Gillepsie, Perplexity Signs New Lease Spanning 22,000 Square Feet at 841, 853 Broadway in Union Square,
Manhattan, New York YIMBY (Feb. 17, 2026), https://newyorkyimby.com/2026/02/perplexity-signs-new-lease-
spanning-22000-square-feet-at-841-853-broadway-in-union-square-manhattan.html.



                                                              7
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427        Document 1         Filed 05/28/26        Page 8 of 54




sparks creativity and collaboration among our staff.”13

           18.     Perplexity’s co-founder and Chief Strategy Officer Johnny Ho publicly described

how, since its founding, the company benefitted from its presence in New York. In response to a

question about whether “there was something that gave you conviction about these individuals to go

on the journey [to found Perplexity] with,” Ho stated that “being in New York brought some different

perspectives to the company and allowed us to actually work in an a-sync way where all of us have

our own ideas and push them together and find something that will align, hopefully not only with a

bubble but, like, the entire world.”14

           19.     In another interview, Ho further revealed how the only in-person meeting among

Perplexity’s three co-founders when starting the company took place in New York: “We got

together, like, one time in New York, and we had a whiteboard, and we spent like maybe two or

three days together. And that was, like, pretty much the only time that we had in person. Everything

else was just like remote.”15

           20.     Perplexity actively seeks to expand its presence in New York and take advantage of

talent in this State and District. Perplexity’s career webpage prominently features that it has offices

in San Francisco and New York City, among other cities. On May 12, 2026, its website listed 23

positions that could be based in New York, including:

                   Member of Technical Staff (Software Engineer, Monetization)
                   Enterprise Growth Lead
                   Solutions Product Marketing Manager

           Moreover, positions advertised in other cities could still be staffed out of New York.


13
     Id.
14
  The Room Podcast, Empowering The Future of Gen AI with Johnny Ho, Co-Founder of Perplexity | The Room Podcast
S11E1 (Oct. 1, 2024), at 10:02-10:45, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZWtcsjQ1gQ4.
15
 Imagination in Action, Inside Perplexity AI: A Conversation with Johnny Ho, Cofounder of Perplexity and CSO IIA
@ MIT 2025 (Apr. 30, 2025), at 2:55-3:15, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ibfXV5vYaA.



                                                       8
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427           Document 1          Filed 05/28/26        Page 9 of 54




           21.      Perplexity also targets customers in or visiting New York with material tailored

specifically to New York. Its webpage https://www.perplexity.ai/encyclopedia/discovernewyork,

invites visitors to “Discover New York with Perplexity.”




           22.      Perplexity also promotes itself in New York City. For example, in September 2024,

Perplexity posted on Instagram a photograph of a billboard in Times Square which read

“Congratulations Perplexity on 250 million questions answered last month.”16 Below is a screenshot

of the Instagram post.




16
     Perplexity [@perplexity.ai], Instagram (Sept. 4, 2024), https://www.instagram.com/perplexity.ai/p/C_g2TonSHC5.



                                                           9
              Case 1:26-cv-04427         Document 1           Filed 05/28/26   Page 10 of 54




        23.     Similarly, on January 5, 2024, Perplexity’s CEO Aravind Srinivas posted on X a

picture of a Tesla Cybertruck emblazoned with Perplexity’s name parked in Times Square. Below

is a screenshot of the X post.17




        24.     Upon information and belief, Perplexity derives substantial revenue from services

rendered in this State and District and from interstate commerce. As of November 2025, Perplexity


17
         Aravind       Srinivas       [@AravSrinivas],   X       (Jan.   6,    2025,    10:41   PM),
https://x.com/aravsrinivas/status/1876474243921432832?s=46.




                                                     10
              Case 1:26-cv-04427            Document 1         Filed 05/28/26         Page 11 of 54




has approximately 22 million active users across its website and app.18 Upon information and belief,

a significant number of these users are in this State and District. Moreover, upon information and

belief, and as evidenced by its business operations in this State and District, Perplexity expects or

should reasonably expect its business operations, including its actions alleged to be legal violations

in this Complaint, to have consequences in the State and District. Indeed, Perplexity is already a

party in at least five lawsuits in this District.19

        25.      CNN’s claims in this Complaint relate to Perplexity’s business in this State and

District and to the work of its employees in this State and District who create, design, market, and

grow Perplexity’s products and services. As alleged further in this Complaint, to eliminate “extra

steps and clicks,” Perplexity infringed on copyrighted works by making unauthorized copies and

providing verbatim or substantially similar copies of these copyrighted works in its “answer engine.”

Moreover, when providing answers to subscribers and users in this State and District, Perplexity will

produce fabricated content with misleading omissions or modifications that devalue CNN’s valuable

trademarks.

        26.      This Court is also the appropriate forum for this action. Perplexity is already

defending lawsuits filed against it in this state and district. In December 2025, The New York Times

Company, No. 25-cv-10106-LAP (S.D.N.Y. Dec. 5, 2025), and the Chicago Tribune Company,

LLC, No. 25-cv-10094 (S.D.N.Y. Dec. 4, 2025), filed complaints against Perplexity alleging

copyright and trademark infringement. In September 2025, Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc. and

Merriam-Webster, Inc. filed a complaint against Perplexity alleging the same. See Encyclopaedia



18
    David Curry, Perplexity Revenue and Usage Statistics (2025), Business of Apps (Nov. 10, 2025),
https://www.businessofapps.com/data/perplexity-ai-statistics/.
19
  See New York Times Co. et al. v. Perplexity, AI, Inc., No. 25-cv-10106; Chicago Tribune Co., LLC v. Perplexity AI,
Inc., No. 25-cv-10094; Reddit, Inc. v. SerpApi LLC et al., No. 25-cv-8736; Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc. et al. v.
Perplexity AI, Inc., No. 25-cv-07546; Dow Jones Perplexity AI, Inc., No. 24-cv-7984.



                                                        11
               Case 1:26-cv-04427      Document 1        Filed 05/28/26       Page 12 of 54




Britannica, Inc., No. 25-cv-07546-JLR (S.D.N.Y. Sept. 10, 2025). In January 2025, Dow Jones &

Company and NYP Holdings filed their second amended complaint against Perplexity with similar

claims. See Dow Jones, at Dkt. 46 (S.D.N.Y. Jan. 28, 2025).

         27.     On August 21, 2025, the Dow Jones court denied in full Perplexity’s 12(b)(2),

12(b)(3), and 12(b)(6) motion to dismiss the complaint for lack of jurisdiction, improper venue, and

failure to state a claim. Id., at Dkt. 65, 2025 WL 2416401, at *1 (S.D.N.Y. Aug. 21, 2025). The

Court further declined to transfer the case to the Northern District of California. Id. In reaching these

conclusions, the Court recognized Perplexity’s “extensive contacts with this state—such as hiring

key employees in New York, leasing office space in New York, and targeting New York users with

advertisements and New York-specific webpages, coupled with offering an interactive website and

mobile app in New York.” Id. at *13.

         28.     CNN also has substantial operations in New York, including hosting multiple shows

from its studios at 30 Hudson Yards in New York with support from more than 800 staffers located

there.

         29.     Finally, venue is proper in this District under 28 U.S.C. §§ 1391 and 1400(a). As

described above, Perplexity and/or its agents reside in this District and/or may be found in this State

and District.

                                    FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS

         I.      CNN’s History and Mission
                 A. CNN’s Revolutionizing News Coverage

         30.     Plaintiff CNN is known around the world for its 24-hour news coverage from the

scenes of the most historic events of our time. When CNN began broadcasting in 1980, it

revolutionized the delivery of news to Americans and, ultimately, to the world. As the first 24-hour

news network, CNN quickly became the place that viewers could turn for immediate and ongoing


                                                   12
             Case 1:26-cv-04427        Document 1        Filed 05/28/26       Page 13 of 54




coverage from around the world at any time of day or night. As United Press International noted in

1990: “So ubiquitous is CNN’s live coverage of breaking news events that both broadcast and print

newsrooms all over the country continuously monitor the network.”

       31.     Over ensuing years, Americans have turned to CNN to see for themselves what was

happening around the world—from the streets of Baghdad to lower Manhattan on 9/11 and from

Hurricane Katrina to Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, and Ukraine. CNN’s work to give the public an

independent view of war and other major world events continues today. Just in the few months

preceding this filing, CNN has reported live from conflict zones in Venezuela, Russia, Ukraine, Iran,

Lebanon, as well as from the White House, Minneapolis, and provided comprehensive coverage of

NASA’s Artemis II launch and landing.

       32.     This work of reporting the news from around the world and here at home is time-

consuming, expensive, and often dangerous. Even at a time when news organizations are under

tremendous financial pressure, CNN maintains 36 bureaus around the world and sends reporters to

major events wherever they are. Those activities require massive efforts to ensure the safety and

effectiveness of the reporters on the ground, including travel, security, legal, and operational support.

Every story requires a team of reporters, editors, and support staff to ensure that CNN’s journalism

meets the highest standards of quality and accuracy. That work is done by the approximately 3,500

people who work at CNN, most of whom are directly involved with supporting CNN reporting.

Without CNN’s continued expenditure of the resources necessary to do this difficult work, the public

would be left without a trusted and reliable source for what is happening at home and around the

world. In a world becoming inundated with false information and manipulated video content, CNN’s

work is more important than ever.




                                                   13
             Case 1:26-cv-04427       Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 14 of 54




       33.     In addition to its renowned breaking news coverage, CNN also provides viewers with

award-winning investigative reporting and in-depth interviews through a variety of shows and

platforms. CNN offers newsmakers and analysts a platform for sharing their opinion and

commentary and is known for the skills of its interviewers. CNN anchors and journalists have long

been recognized as among the most trusted in America.

       34.     The quality of CNN’s journalism continues to be recognized with awards from its

industry peers and other recognition. In 2026, CNN was nominated for 32 News & Documentary

Emmy® Awards. In addition to winning multiple Emmy® Awards, CNN and its journalists have

also been awarded multiple Peabody Awards; Edward R. Murrow Awards; the George Polk Award;

the Four Freedoms Award; and the Alfred I duPont-Columbia Award, one of the most prestigious

awards in media, for its coverage in Ukraine.

       35.     As technologies have changed, CNN has expanded the availability of its news

coverage across CNN Digital Platforms. CNN Digital is a top online news destination, routinely

registering more than 150 million unique visitors globally each month. CNN Digital Platforms

provide access to both CNN video coverage and a wealth of articles providing original news

coverage and other features. In 2025, CNN Digital Platforms were first in the United States with an

average monthly unique user count of 94 million people for the tenth year in a row. Amidst an

industry-wide shift to mobile news consumption, CNN was the news outlet with the most reach in

the U.S. in mobile visitors with 67 million average monthly users.

       36.     As the cable industry evolves, CNN’s ability to monetize online content and compete

for traffic through CNN Digital Platforms is critical to its continued survival as a news network. In

2024 CNN Digital Platforms introduced a paid subscription service to build a subscription business,

offering CNN.com articles. One year later in 2025, that subscription offering expanded with the




                                                 14
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427         Document 1         Filed 05/28/26        Page 15 of 54




addition of streaming video. Audiences can now experience the full multimodal CNN offering

through its All Access subscription, a centralized place with live channels, on-demand video, new

releases and library content from CNN Original Series and CNN Films, along with the foundational

CNN.com articles. The direct-to-consumer subscription offering is available across web, mobile and

connected TV apps.

           37.     Perplexity’s actions threaten CNN’s continued efforts to provide breaking news and

analysis by copying, using, and adapting CNN’s content in connection with GenAI products without

compensation to CNN. These actions deprive CNN of visits to its Digital Platforms, decrease its

subscription revenue, threaten its advertising revenue, and reduce its licensing revenue.

           38.     CNN goes to great lengths to protect its content. It registers copyrights in its content

and provides copyright notices in connection with its works. Beyond the protections provided by the

exclusive rights of reproduction, adaptation, publication, performance, and display under copyright

law, CNN uses paywalls to protect some of its content and implements terms of service and terms

of use that restrict the use of the content provided on CNN Digital Platforms. CNN’s terms of use

state,“[t]he Site contains copyrighted material, trademarks and other proprietary information,

including, but not limited to, text, software, photos, video, graphics, music and sound, and the entire

contents of the Site are copyrighted as a collective work under the United States copyright laws.”20

CNN’s terms of use further provide,

             You may not modify, publish, transmit, participate in the transfer or sale, create
             derivative works, or in any way exploit, any of the content, in whole or in part.
             You may download copyrighted material for your personal use only. Except as
             otherwise expressly permitted under copyright law, no copying, redistribution,
             retransmission, publication or commercial exploitation of downloaded material
             will be permitted without the express permission of CNN and the copyright
             owner. In the event of any permitted copying, redistribution or publication of
             copyrighted material, no changes in or deletion of author attribution, trademark

20
     CNN Terms of Use, Mobile Apps/Website Terms of Use, https://www.cnn.com/terms0 (last visited May 27, 2026).



                                                        15
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427       Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 16 of 54




            legend or copyright notice shall be made. You acknowledge that you do not
            acquire any ownership rights by downloading copyrighted material.21

           39.     CNN requires that any third party that wishes to use its content obtain a license to do

so. These licensing agreements allow CNN to control how third parties receive and display its

content. CNN licenses its content only under narrowly tailored terms that provide explicit guardrails

regarding how and to what extent third parties can use the licensed content.

           40.     Even under these licensing agreements, third parties are not permitted to “scrape” the

content from CNN Digital Platforms, as Perplexity has done without permission. Instead, CNN

retains control over how third parties access licensed content by requiring them to use specific

channels to obtain CNN content.

           B.      GenAI Products Threaten High-Quality, On-Scene Reporting

           41.     It has become more difficult for the public to sort facts from fiction in today’s

information ecosystem, as misinformation floods the internet, television, and other media. If CNN

and other news organizations cannot produce and protect their independent journalism, there will be

a vacuum that no computer or AI can fill.

           42.     The protection of CNN’s intellectual property is critical to its continued ability to

fund world-class reporting in the public interest. If CNN and its peers cannot control the use of their

content, their ability to monetize that content will be harmed. With less revenue, news organizations

will have fewer journalists able to dedicate time and resources to important, in-depth reporting,

which creates a risk that those stories will go untold. Less reporting will be produced, and the cost

to society will be enormous.




21
     Id.



                                                     16
             Case 1:26-cv-04427       Document 1        Filed 05/28/26     Page 17 of 54




       43.     CNN depends on its exclusive rights of reproduction, adaptation, publication,

performance, and display under copyright law to maintain its business and to develop selected

markets. CNN maintains paywalls and implements terms of service for CNN Digital Platforms that

set limits on the copying and use of its content. To use CNN’s content for commercial purposes, a

party must first approach CNN about a licensing agreement.

       44.     Third parties are required to obtain permission before using CNN’s content and

trademarks for commercial purposes and CNN has licensed its content under negotiated licensing

agreements. These agreements help ensure CNN controls how, where, and for how long its content

and brand appears and that it receives fair compensation for third-party use.

       45.     CNN’s ability to continue to attract and grow its digital subscriber base and to

generate digital advertising revenue depends on the size of CNN’s audience and users’ sustained

engagement directly with CNN Digital Platforms. While CNN permits search engines to access its

content for the limited purpose of surfacing it in traditional search results, CNN has never given

permission to Perplexity to use its content for GenAI purposes. Inherent in this value exchange is

the idea that the search engines will direct users to CNN Digital Platforms, rather than exploit CNN’s

content to keep users within their own search ecosystem.

       46.     CNN has never given permission to Perplexity to use its content for GenAI purposes.

Perplexity was on notice from multiple sources, including but not limited to CNN’s terms of service,

that CNN had not given it permission to engage in any use of CNN’s content, including its protected

paywall content. Perplexity was also put on notice by direct communications between CNN and

Perplexity. CNN and Perplexity negotiated a term sheet effective October 1, 2025, for a CNN -

Perplexity Comet Plus Partnership, with an agreement to finalize the contract within sixty days. Part

of that term sheet would have allowed Perplexity to access CNN paywalled content for its Comet




                                                 17
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427       Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 18 of 54




Plus users in exchange for compensation to CNN for its use of that content. On October 2, 2025,

Perplexity touted its agreement with CNN, stating the agreement would give “Comet users access

to outlets like CNN . . . .”22 In promoting this agreement, Mr. Srinivas told Business Insider, “We

have always been clear that a product like ours required high-quality sources to exist on the web.”23

Perplexity stated its “goal with Comet is to help people avoid low-quality content and focus on

meaningful, high-quality sources for research.”24

           47.     CNN’s short form agreement did not lead to a final agreement between the parties

due to the inability to agree on multiple issues, including limits on Perplexity’s use of CNN content

in its answers to users. The parties agreed to terminate the term sheet effective November 24, 2025.

Both before and after Perplexity’s negotiations with CNN, CNN had blocked PerplexityBot from

accessing its content. As a result, before and after Perplexity’s negotiations with CNN, Perplexity

knew that it was not permitted to access CNN’s content or to use its trademarks or service marks.

           48.     On December 10, 2025, CNN wrote to Perplexity’s Head of Legal and Operations

(now General Counsel) Nathan Barksdale demanding that Perplexity cease its unauthorized use of

CNN’s name, service marks, and content. CNN made plain to Perplexity in its letter that its activity

was illegal, that CNN had not given Perplexity permission to use any of its content, and the

consequences of Perplexity continuing to engage in this activity:

           CNN’s content is copyrighted and proprietary to CNN, and CNN has valuable rights
           in and to the CNN Marks and content, which are protected by law. Such rights include
           the exclusive right to reproduce, adapt, distribute, and sell copies of the CNN content
           to third parties and the exclusive right to use the CNN Marks. As you know, CNN
           has not granted Perplexity permission to use the CNN content or CNN Marks in
           connection with Perplexity services or for any other purpose, and any such use
           constitutes a violation of CNN’s rights under copyright and trademark law. Please be

22
    No more slop: Perplexity makes its $200 AI browser free, Business Insider (Oct. 2, 2025),
https://www.businessinsider.com/perplexity-makes-200-ai-browser-free-to-battle-ai-slop-2025-10.
23
     Id.
24
     Id.



                                                     18
              Case 1:26-cv-04427            Document 1         Filed 05/28/26         Page 19 of 54




        assured that CNN considers this a serious matter. By this notice, CNN hereby
        demands that Perplexity immediately cease and desist from any further unauthorized
        copying, exhibition, distribution, or other use, in any manner, of any CNN content or
        the CNN Marks. Failure to comply with this demand could result in CNN pursuing
        all available remedies to protect CNN content and CNN Marks, which may include,
        without limitation, legal proceedings to recover damages and to impose equitable
        remedies.

        49.      Perplexity never responded to CNN’s December 10, 2025 letter. Instead, Perplexity

has continued using CNN content in violation of CNN’s rights and without its permission.

        II.      Perplexity’s Business and Generative AI Technology

        50.      Backed by investors, Perplexity was valued at $20 billion in its latest funding round.

It has said that it currently delivers more than 100 million generative search results each week. Last

year, its founder and CEO, Aravind Srinivas, stated that Perplexity had handled 780 million search

queries in May 2025.25 On June 24, 2025, news outlets reported that technology giants like Meta

and Apple have been considering Perplexity as a potential target for acquisition.26 On January 29,

2026, it was reported that Perplexity signed a $750 million agreement with Microsoft.27

        51.      The LLMs—a type of AI system that generates human-like language—upon which

Perplexity’s AI products are built are called “generative” AI because they are capable of generating

content, such as text, images, audio, or other data. LLMs work by predicting words that are likely to

follow a given string of text based on the potentially billions of examples used to train them. They

use algorithms to weigh the relevance of different parts of the input data when generating text. LLM




25
   Aisha Malik, Perplexity received 780 million queries last month, CEO says, Tech Crunch (June 5, 2025),
https://techcrunch.com/2025/06/05/perplexity-received-780-million-queries-last-month-ceo-says/.
26
   See, e.g., Lisa Eadicicco, What is Perplexity, the AI startup said to be catching Meta and Apple’s attention, CNN
(June 24, 2025), https://www.cnn.com/2025/06/24/tech/perplexity-ai-search-engine-meta-apple.
27
   Perplexity signs $750 million AI cloud deal with Microsoft, Bloomberg News reports, Reuters (Jan. 29, 2026),
https://www.reuters.com/business/perplexity-signs-750-million-ai-cloud-deal-with-microsoft-bloomberg-news-
reports-2026-01-29/.



                                                        19
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427             Document 1          Filed 05/28/26          Page 20 of 54




operators “train” their models on vast datasets of written material, allowing them to encode patterns

and relationships between words and sentences.

           52.      Once trained, LLMs can generate human-like text by taking a seed input (e.g., a

question or prompt) and iteratively predicting the most likely next word based on the patterns it has

learned. Through this process, LLMs can generate answers to questions about information that is

included in their training data. They are also capable of taking documents as input, then summarizing

or answering questions about those documents. The quality of the output depends on the size of the

model, the diversity of training data, and the specific architecture and training techniques used.

           53.      Perplexity has publicly stated that, in addition to leveraging other companies’ LLMs,

including those of OpenAI, Meta, Anthropic, Google, and NVIDIA,28 it offers a proprietary Sonar

family of LLMs specifically designed to support its GenAI Products. For example, Perplexity fine-

tuned (or “post-trained”) open source LLMs using NVIDIA’s NeMo product “to create custom

models for [its] online answer engine.”29 Similarly, Perplexity stated that its Sonar LLM is built on

Meta’s open source Llama 3.3 70B LLM, which had been “further trained to enhance answer

factuality and readability for Perplexity’s default search mode.”30 Perplexity specifically fine-tuned

the Sonar LLMs to support “real world use cases” such as “[b]rowsing news, sports, health and

finance content.”31 As an example, Perplexity describes how Sonar can receive a user query asking

“What is the latest news in AI research?” and generate a grounded answer using content copied from



28
   Perplexity, What advanced AI models are included in my subscription?, https://www.perplexity.ai/help-
center/en/articles/10354919-what-advanced-ai-models-are-included-in-my-subscription (last visited May 27, 2026).
29
   NVIDIA, Perplexity Enhances Model Performance for AI-Powered Search Engines With NVIDIA NeMo,
https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/customer-stories/perplexity-enhances-model-performance-with-nemo/ (last visited May
27, 2026).
30
   Perplexity Team, Meet Sonar: A Blazing Fast Model Optimized for Perplexity Search, (Feb. 11, 2025)
https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/blog/meet-new-sonar.
31
     Perplexity, Sonar, https://docs.perplexity.ai/docs/sonar/models/sonar (last visited May 27, 2026).



                                                             20
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427         Document 1         Filed 05/28/26   Page 21 of 54




five different news websites.32 As of February 11, 2025, Perplexity made Sonar available as a default

model for its API.33

           54.      LLMs may also be deployed in conjunction with a technique called “retrieval-

augmented generation” (“RAG”), also known as “grounding.” Once trained, LLMs may be provided

with information specific to a use case or subject matter in order to “ground” their outputs. For

example, an LLM may be asked to generate a text output based on specific external data, such as a

document, provided as context. Using this method, Perplexity’s GenAI Products: (1) receive an

input, such as a prompt; (2) retrieve relevant content related to the input prior to generating a

response; (3) combine the original input with the retrieved documents in order to provide context;

and (4) provide the combined data to an LLM, which generates a human-like language response.

           55.      Perplexity has built a search index, or database, comprising “hundreds of billions of

webpages” that it crawled and scraped from the internet to use as part of the RAG process.34 More

specifically, Perplexity “built an exabyte-scale index and crawling apparatus,” and its “crawler and

indexing fleets collectively comprise tens of thousands of CPUs and hundreds of terabytes of

RAM.”35 Perplexity generates the “answers” to user prompts and questions by using content it

retrieves from its search index or obtains in real-time from available sources (collectively, “RAG

Content”). As Perplexity itself explains, “Perplexity leverages sophisticated AI to interpret your

question” and then “searches the internet, gathering information from authoritative sources like

articles, websites, and journals.”36


32
     Id.
33
     Perplexity, supra note 30.
34
  Perplexity Team, Introducing the Perplexity Search API (Sept. 25, 2025),
https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/blog/introducing-the-perplexity-search-api.
35
     Perplexity Research, supra note 8.
36
     Perplexity, supra note 2.



                                                        21
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427            Document 1           Filed 05/28/26          Page 22 of 54




           56.     Mr. Srinivas described the periodicity of Perplexity’s RAG scraping as follows: “I

don’t remember off the top of my head what is the exact periodicity, but it’s pretty frequent, like at

least [] every few hours. It is using retrieval augmented generation.”37

           57.     On information and belief, since it was launched in 2022, Perplexity has included

CNN’s content as RAG Content, including CNN’s content covered by the registrations listed herein.

Upon information and belief, Perplexity obtained CNN’s content by scraping content directly from

CNN Digital Platforms, or via third parties, to use as RAG Content.

           58.     Indeed, Perplexity emphasized RAG and its reliance on high-quality content, like

CNN’s, to distinguish itself from other search engines and AI products on the market. Mr. Srinivas

described that Perplexity is not a traditional search engine but rather “opening a new segment for

these answer bots that support people to come do their research directly.”38 As part of its RAG model

development, Perplexity has built a “a more modern version of PageRank to build a trust map of the

web.” 39 As part of this “trust map,” Mr. Srinivas explained that they placed a higher value on high-

quality news, stating, “For example, sites like The New York Times are generally more reliable than

Substack posts, which may be more opinionated.”40

           59.     Perplexity publicly emphasizes its ability to provide news content. On August 15,

2025, Mr. Srinivas was interviewed on the Hard Fork Podcast41 and explained, “you don’t want to


37
   Outset Capital, Perplexity CEO Aravind Srinivas, Thursday Nights in AI (July 18, 2023), at 24:58-25:20,
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jksGQhMtXjo.
38
   Id. at 29:49 (“We found like a lot of users like using it for research. Lots of these questions that you have in your day
to day life that involve you to like do some amount of research, whether it’s a few minutes, a few hours, our product just
nails it and that's where we have found a lot of usage, and hence why I think it’s not really like a Google competition,
even though [it] is very easy to say that. It’s more like opening a new segment for these answer bots that support people
to come do their research directly.”).
39
    Joanne Chen, How Perplexity.ai Is Pioneering The Future Of Search, Forbes (Sept. 6, 2023),
https://www.forbes.com/sites/joannechen/2023/09/06/how-perplexityai-is-pioneering-the-future-of-search/.
40
     Id.
41
  Hard Fork, GPT-5 Backlash + Perplexity C.E.O. Aravind Srinivas on the Browser Wars + Hot Mess Express (Aug.
15, 2025), https://www.nytimes.com/2025/08/15/podcasts/hardfork-gpt5-perplexity.html?showTranscript=1.


                                                            22
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427        Document 1         Filed 05/28/26        Page 23 of 54




just build an Apple News-like model. But it’s going to be closer to Apple News with some

protections for users. So say they can have AIs also read those articles. And the publishers get

rewarded. So that’s how I’m thinking about it.”42

           60.     Perplexity markets itself as a superior research tool compared to other search engines

and AI products because of its RAG integration, which allows Perplexity to “always retrieve relevant

documents and pick relevant paragraphs from each document and use those documents and

paragraphs to write your answer for that query.”43 Indeed, Perplexity’s reproduction and

dissemination of existing content, including copyrighted information, is highlighted by Perplexity

as the primary reason to pick Perplexity over similar platforms. As Mr. Srinivas explained: “The

principle in Perplexity is you’re not supposed to say anything that you don’t retrieve, which is even

more powerful than RAG because RAG just says, ‘Okay, use this additional context and write an

answer.’ But we say, ‘Don’t use anything more than that too.’ That way we ensure a factual

grounding.”

           61.     Mr. Srinivas has stressed the importance of RAG not only to Perplexity but to the

future of generative AI generally. According to Mr. Srinivas, RAG is the framework that can train

AI to have the context to answer a user query. Responding to a question about the most promising

frontier where the next breakthrough in generative AI may come, Mr. Srinivas directly referenced

RAG and the importance of context:

            I think the real breakthrough could potentially come from figuring out extremely
            long context. So currently, all the AIs are doing something called the retrieval-
            augmented generation, including Perplexity. It’s called RAG, where the model
            itself doesn’t have the full context to answer your question. And so it pulls the
            relevant context from some data store, be it the web index or some other data


42
     Id.
43
   Lex Fridman, Aravind Srinivas: Perplexity CEO on Future of AI, Search & the Internet | Lex Fridman Podcast #434
(June 19, 2024), at 01:56:48, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e-gwvmhyU7A.



                                                       23
                  Case 1:26-cv-04427          Document 1         Filed 05/28/26   Page 24 of 54




             index, and puts it into the prompt, and then answers your question. But your life—
             let’s say 10 years of your life—all the context in it cannot be compressed that
             easily. And what if you wanted to chat with an AI in the same way you would
             chat with a friend that you’ve known for a decade, where you don’t have to keep
             starting new chats to talk about different things? It’s all one single stream of chat.
             I think that’s very hard to do right now. And so figuring out extremely long
             contexts, like one million or 10 million tokens or even infinite tokens—with,
             What is the right structure to store all the memories?—is still an open problem.44

           62.      Perplexity’s stated objective of “not saying anything that it doesn’t retrieve” requires

high-quality RAG Content on an ongoing basis. Mr. Srinivas’s interview with interviewer Lex

Fridman is telling in this regard:

             Fridman: Yeah, let’s just linger on that. So in general, RAG is doing the search
             part with a query to add extra context to generate a better answer?

             Srinivas: Yeah.

             Fridman: I suppose you’re saying you want to really stick to the truth that is
             represented by the human-written text on the internet?

             Srinivas: Correct.45

            63.     RAG—whether called retrieval-augmented generation, grounding, retrieving, or

contextualizing—is not possible without high-quality, fact-checked content like that of CNN.

Human beings report, research, write, edit, and create the content that Perplexity takes without

permission or compensation. Perplexity expressly depends on, and engages in massive copying of,

this content to distinguish itself in the marketplace. While benefiting from content, including CNN’s,

Perplexity has failed to pay for it, instead choosing to copy it and unlawfully appropriate intellectual

property created by human authors.




44
   Harvard Business School, Perplexity CEO Aravind Srinivas: From Academic to $9B AI Pioneer | HBS
Entrepreneurship Summit 2025 (Apr. 25, 2025), at 31:42. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rkizxztabt8.
45
     Fridman, supra note 43, at 01:57:27-01:57:39 (emphasis added).



                                                          24
                  Case 1:26-cv-04427            Document 1           Filed 05/28/26          Page 25 of 54




           III.      Perplexity’s Unauthorized Use and Copying of CNN’s Content

           64.       Perplexity’s GenAI Products infringe on CNN’s copyrights at two primary stages.

                     A. Perplexity Infringes CNN’s Copyrights at the Input Stage

           65.       Perplexity copies CNN’s content by crawling and scraping CNN’s Digital Platforms

and other content with its own crawlers like PerplexityBot and Perplexity-User, as well as those of

third parties on which Perplexity relies.46 Perplexity also copies CNN’s content by accessing and

using third-party indices and databases comprised of scraped CNN content.

           66.       Perplexity uses its PerplexityBot crawler to crawl, scrape, and copy CNN’s content,

including from its Digital Platforms, to populate Perplexity’s “AI-First” search index to power its

GenAI Products. In addition, Perplexity uses its Perplexity-User crawler to crawl and scrape CNN’s

content, including from CNN Digital Platforms, in real-time to feed to its GenAI Products.

           67.       Perplexity stresses that its crawlers are “designed to surface and link websites in

search results on Perplexity” and are “not used to crawl content for AI foundation models.”47

Notwithstanding Perplexity’s representation that its crawlers are not used for “AI foundation

models,” Perplexity specifically designs and uses its crawlers to obtain RAG Content to answer user

queries. Without employing researchers, writers, or editors, Perplexity boasts that its “content is

sourced from the web in real-time as you ask your questions, ensuring you receive the most up-to-

date information available.”48 Perplexity further highlights its “credible sources,” emphasizing that

“all responses are supported by citations from reputable news organizations, academic publications,



46
  Mark Sullivan, Perplexity CEO Aravind Srinivas responds to plagiarism and infringement accusations, Fast Company
(June    21,     2024),     https://www.fastcompany.com/91144894/perplexity-ai-ceo-aravind-srinivas-on-plagiarism-
accusations (deflecting blame that Perplexity’s crawlers don’t respect robots.txt protocol by saying Perplexity relies on
crawlers of unidentified “third-party provider of web crawling and indexing services”).
47
     Perplexity, Perplexity Crawlers, https://docs.perplexity.ai/guides/bots (last visited May 27, 2026).
48
     Perplexity, supra note 5.



                                                             25
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427          Document 1           Filed 05/28/26   Page 26 of 54




and established content sources.”49

           68.      In doing so, Perplexity and/or its agents at times have intentionally ignored or evaded

technical content protection measures, such as robots.txt, designed specifically to guard against such

crawling and to instruct web crawlers to refrain from copying digital content. In fact, Perplexity

openly admits that its Perplexity-User crawler “generally ignores robots.txt rules.”50 WIRED has

further reported how “[i]n theory, Perplexity’s chatbot shouldn’t be able to summarize WIRED

articles, because our engineers have blocked its crawler via our robots.txt file,”51 and “Perplexity

claims to respect the robots.txt standard.” “WIRED’s analysis found that in practice, though,

prompting the chatbot with the headline of a WIRED article or a question based on one will usually

produce a summary appearing to recapitulate the article in detail.”52

           69.      An independent developer, Robb Knight, has further reported his investigation and

findings that “Perplexity had apparently ignored his robots.txt file and evaded his firewall.”53 Upon

information and belief, Perplexity uses “an automated web browser running on a server with an IP

address that the company does not publicly disclose.”54 The lack of disclosure means that its

bots/user agents do not identify themselves, allowing it to avoid efforts by CNN Digital Platforms

to recognize or block Perplexity’s unidentified crawlers from scraping those platforms. WIRED

reports that Conde Nast engineers’ analysis of its system logs shows that Perplexity’s undisclosed




49
     Id.
50
     Perplexity, supra note 47.
51
    Dhruv Mehrotra & Tim Marchman, Perplexity Is a Bullshit Machine, Wired (June 19, 2024),
https://www.wired.com/story/perplexity-is-a-bullshit-machine/ (describing how Perplexity “is surreptitiously
scraping—and making things up out of thin air”).
52
     Id.
53
   Id.; see also Robb Knight, Perplexity AI Is Lying about Their User Agent (June 19, 2024),
https://rknight.me/blog/perplexity-ai-is-lying-about-its-user-agent/.
54
     Mehrotra & Marchman, supra note 51; Knight, supra note 53.



                                                         26
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427         Document 1          Filed 05/28/26         Page 27 of 54




IP address “likely . . . has accessed the company’s content thousands of times without permission.”55

           70.     Most recently, four independent investigators reported that they “are observing

stealth crawling behavior from Perplexity,” after they conducted testing upon receiving complaints

from customers who specifically blocked Perplexity’s declared crawlers but found that “Perplexity

was still able to access their content even when they saw its bots successfully blocked.”56 They found

that even when websites explicitly prohibit Perplexity from automated access to their content via

robots.txt and other Web Application Firewall rules, Perplexity nonetheless scraped their detailed

content by using undeclared user agents “intended to impersonate Google Chrome on macOS when

their declared crawler was blocked.”57 Perplexity’s crawler “utilized multiple IPs not listed in

Perplexity’s official IP range” in order to “evade website blocks.”58

           71.     Though robots.txt blocks should have been enough to deter Perplexity from accessing

CNN Digital Platforms, it was not. Perplexity continues to use CNN content, including by accessing

CNN's website using PerplexityBot. Moreover, Perplexity continues to access and use CNN’s

content for RAG, as evidenced most clearly by the verbatim and substantially similar Perplexity

outputs described below. Upon information and belief, Perplexity has used, and continues to use,

similar undisclosed methods to access CNN’s content without permission.

                   B. Perplexity Infringes CNN’s Intellectual Property at the Output Stage

           72.     The lengthy outputs from Perplexity’s GenAI Products often contain full or partial

verbatim reproductions of CNN’s copyrighted content, particularly when a user asks a question



55
     Mehrotra & Marchman, supra note 51.
56
  Gabriel Corral, Vaibhav Singhal, Brian Mitchell & Reid Tatoris, Perplexity is using stealth, undeclared crawlers to
evade website no-crawl directives, Cloudflare (Aug. 4, 2025), https://blog.cloudflare.com/perplexity-is-using-stealth-
undeclared-crawlers-to-evade-website-no-crawl-directives/.
57
     Id.
58
     Id.



                                                         27
              Case 1:26-cv-04427       Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 28 of 54




about what CNN has reported. At other times, the outputs are reworded into text that closely

paraphrases or summarizes in detail CNN’s copyrighted works. Perplexity will also provide

information behind CNN’s paywall without paying for that content. These reproductions go far

beyond the snippets typically shown with ordinary search results. Moreover, when a user asks for

further details regarding these outputs, Perplexity often provides such details—including extensive

verbatim language. Even when Perplexity’s outputs include links to source materials, users have less

need to navigate to those sources because their expressive content is already quoted or paraphrased

in the narrative result. Indeed, such indication of attribution may make users more likely to trust the

summary alone and not click through to verify.

        73.     In this way, Perplexity’s RAG outputs divert traffic and revenue away from copyright

holders like CNN. A user who has already read the latest news or found the right kind of product,

even—or especially—with attribution to CNN, has little reason to visit the original source or pay to

access the article they just read.

        74.     Below are illustrative, non-exhaustive examples of Perplexity’s copyright infringing

outputs, generated in May 2026.

                        (i)     Perplexity’s Chatbots

        75.     Perplexity’s flagship consumer GenAI product is an AI chatbot search engine—

which Perplexity refers to as an “answer engine”—that will readily output infringing copies and

derivatives of CNN’s content.

        76.     As an illustrative example, when a user asks Perplexity’s chatbot to, inter alia,

“[d]eeply analyze an article from a single reputable source to tell me what’s been reported about

Marco Rubio dropping one of his job titles,” Perplexity provides verbatim portions from the CNN




                                                  28
              Case 1:26-cv-04427             Document 1          Filed 05/28/26         Page 29 of 54




article “Marco Rubio drops one of his job titles, while still juggling several other hats.”59 In the

example below, the full copied text from Perplexity’s chatbot is indicated in the left column and

the original article text is in the right column, the copied text is in red.




  Aleena Fayaz, Marco Rubio drops one of his job titles, while still juggling several other hats, CNN (Feb. 5, 2026),
https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/05/politics/marco-rubio-national-archives.


                                                          29
              Case 1:26-cv-04427           Document 1          Filed 05/28/26        Page 30 of 54




        77.      This article is registered with the U.S. Copyright Office as part of Registration No.

TX 9-574-794.

        78.      Notably, the above example was generated using Perplexity Pro, Perplexity’s fee-

based plan, meaning that users are able to obtain infringing content by paying a fee to Perplexity,

but not to CNN.

        79.      Perplexity will also provide content from CNN when CNN is not referenced in the

prompt. As with the above example, in the below example, Perplexity produced verbatim portions

of the CNN article “Officials race to cool down tank containing toxic chemical as 50,000 residents

remain under evacuation order in California” without being prompted with the article title or

instructed to provide CNN content. 60




60
  Taylor Romine et al., Officials race to cool down tank containing toxic chemical as 50,000 residents remain under
evacuation order in California, CNN (May 24, 2026), https://www.cnn.com/2026/05/22/us/chemical-spill-orange-
county-california.


                                                        30
Case 1:26-cv-04427   Document 1   Filed 05/28/26   Page 31 of 54




                            31
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427             Document 1      Filed 05/28/26   Page 32 of 54




                    (ii)         Perplexity’s Personal AI Assistants

           80.      Perplexity’s Comet browser, which Perplexity markets as “[y]our personal

assistant,”61 will produce entire, verbatim copies of CNN’s paywalled content to users who are not

subscribed to CNN Digital Platforms. In the example below, Perplexity’s Comet browser returned

and produced a verbatim copy of the paywalled CNN article titled “Trump’s growing volatility is

putting the world on edge.” It does so despite CNN’s clear instruction that the article requires a

subscription with CNN to access.62




61
     Perplexity, supra note 9.
62
    Stephen Collinson, Trump’s growing volatility is putting the world on edge, CNN (Feb. 9, 2026),
https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/09/politics/trumps-growing-volatility-is-putting-the-world-on-edge.



                                                          32
             Case 1:26-cv-04427         Document 1        Filed 05/28/26      Page 33 of 54




       81.     In the example below, the full copied text from Comet Assistant is indicated in the

left column and the original article text is in the right column, the copied text is in red.




                                                   33
             Case 1:26-cv-04427       Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 34 of 54




       82.     This article is registered with the U.S. Copyright Office as part of Registration TX

9-574-794.

               (iii)   Perplexity’s API Platform

       83.     Perplexity’s API Platform provides access to a suite of LLMs, including Perplexity’s

proprietary “Sonar” family of LLM models, which are open-source models that Perplexity fine-

tuned to optimize for RAG, as well as third-party LLMs offered by OpenAI (GPT), Anthropic

(Sonnet), and Google (Gemini), among others.

                       (a) Perplexity Search API

       84.     One product on Perplexity’s API Platform is Perplexity’s Search API, which provides



                                                 34
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427              Document 1          Filed 05/28/26          Page 35 of 54




“real-time access to ranked web search results from a continuously refreshed index”63 and costs $5

per one thousand requests.64 Perplexity markets its Search API as a useful tool for obtaining news.

For example, Perplexity instructs its users to use parameter controls to extract “more content for

comprehensive analysis”65 while using Perplexity’s Search API.




           85.       Perplexity’s Search API will produce verbatim copies—often of an entire article from

CNN Digital Platforms—in response to search queries from users. In the example below,

Perplexity’s Search API outputs verbatim portions of the CNN article “Wes Moore confronts the

limits of his own power in a clash with Maryland Democrats.”66 Perplexity’s output is reflected in



63
     Perplexity, Perplexity Search API, https://docs.perplexity.ai/docs/search/quickstart (last accessed May 27, 2026).
64
     Perplexity, Pricing, https://docs.perplexity.ai/docs/getting-started/pricing (last accessed May 27, 2026).
65
     Id.
66
   Edward-Isaac Dovere, Wes Moore confronts the limits of his own power in a clash with Maryland Democrats, CNN
(Feb. 1, 2026), https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/01/politics/wes-moore-maryland-democrats-redistricting.



                                                              35
                Case 1:26-cv-04427          Document 1          Filed 05/28/26         Page 36 of 54




the below left column and the text from the original article is in the right column, the copied text is

in red.




          86.     This article is registered with the U.S. Copyright Office as part of Registration TX

9-574-794.

          87.     In another example, when prompted with part of the title of the CNN article “What’s

next for Minneapolis? A shaky promise, mounting tensions and the fight for control,” 67 Perplexity’s



67
   Alaa Elassar, What’s next for Minneapolis? A shaky promise, mounting tensions and the fight for control, CNN (Feb.
2, 2026), https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/02/us/future-minneapolis-ice-investigations-court.


                                                         36
                Case 1:26-cv-04427          Document 1          Filed 05/28/26         Page 37 of 54




Search API produced substantial portions of the article verbatim. Perplexity’s output is reflected in

the below left column and the text from the original article is in the right column, the copied text is

in red.




          88.     This article is registered with the U.S. Copyright Office as part of Registration TX

9-574-794.

          89.     Similarly, when prompted with part of the title of the CNN article “As a parade of

US allies rattled by Trump visit China, Beijing claims a win for its new world order,” 68 Perplexity’s




68
 Simone McCarthy, As a parade of US allies rattled by Trump visit China, Beijing claims a win for its new world order,
CNN (Feb. 2, 2026), https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/02/china/china-us-europe-allies-analysis-hnk-intl.


                                                         37
                Case 1:26-cv-04427       Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 38 of 54




Search API produced a substantial, verbatim portion of the article. Perplexity’s output is reflected in

the below left column and the text from the original article is in the right column, the copied text is

in red.




          90.     This article is registered with the U.S. Copyright Office as part of Registration TX

9-574-794.

                         (b) Perplexity Agent API

          91.     Another product on Perplexity’s API Platform is Perplexity’s Agent API, which

Perplexity describes as “access[ing] models from multiple providers with integrated real-time web




                                                    38
              Case 1:26-cv-04427           Document 1          Filed 05/28/26        Page 39 of 54




search, tool configuration, reasoning control, and token budgets . . . .”69 As with Perplexity’s Search

API, Perplexity advertises its Agent API as a tool to obtain news. As captured below, Perplexity

instructs users how to use various tools to answer questions about current events and news.




        92.      Perplexity’s Agent API will also produce verbatim copies of an entire article from

CNN Digital Platforms in response to search queries from users. The following example was

produced after prompting Perplexity’s Agent API to do a “sentiment analysis” of a CNN article.

The prompt includes, “If you cannot access a substantial chunk of the text, try other approaches for

accessing it, without requiring follow-ups from me.” In the below example, Perplexity’s Agent API

produced the entire verbatim text from the CNN article “New files deepen a critical mystery about

those who partied with Jeffrey Epstein.”70 Perplexity’s output is reflected in the below left column

and the text from the original article is in the right column, the copied text is in red.




69
  Perplexity, Agent API, https://docs.perplexity.ai/docs/agent-api/quickstart (last accessed May 27, 2026).
70
  Stephen Collinson, New files deepen a critical mystery about those who partied with Jeffrey Epstein, CNN (Feb. 4,
2026), https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/03/politics/epstein-files-trump-clinton-musk-blanche-analysis.



                                                        39
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427        Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 40 of 54




           93.      This article is registered with the U.S. Copyright Office as part of Registration TX

9-574-794.

           94.      Notably, Perplexity’s users pay for the Agent API on a per invocation rate, which

varies based on the tool used.71 When prompting the free Perplexity search engine to produce the

same article, Perplexity responds, “I can’t provide the full text of that article, but can offer a detailed

summary or quote a short excerpt.” Nevertheless, for a fee paid to Perplexity, but not to CNN,

Perplexity willfully violates CNN’s copyright protections.

           95.      These examples of verbatim or otherwise substantially similar or substitutive outputs


71
     Perplexity, supra note 64.


                                                      40
             Case 1:26-cv-04427       Document 1        Filed 05/28/26     Page 41 of 54




create a reasonable inference that Perplexity is generating massive amounts of such outputs in

response to users’ prompts, from all or virtually all of CNN’s valuable, copyrighted works. Those

prompts and outputs are in the sole possession, custody, and control of Perplexity.

       96.     The underlying, original content cited above also reflects the substantial resources

CNN invests in first-hand reporting. A service that requires human reporting and investigative work

cannot be supplanted by AI. From first-hand reporting on toxic chemicals to analysis regarding

foreign policy and domestic politics, the above examples reflect the breadth and unique nature of

CNN reporting, bringing first-hand, insightful reporting from every corner of the globe. By their

infringement, Perplexity endangers the continued creation of this critical service.

       IV.     Perplexity Engages in Trademark Infringement by Falsely Claiming a
               Relationship with CNN and Modifying Portions of CNN’s Trademarked
               Publications.

       97.     When Perplexity’s website and app are asked questions that relate to CNN’s content,

the applications will falsely claim that its users can get access to CNN’s premium content, thereby

claiming an affiliation with CNN that does not exist. As seen below, when you ask Perplexity chatbot

“What is comet plus?” Perplexity responds by falsely claiming CNN is part of Perplexity’s

“premium news bundle” under Comet Plus “similar in spirit to Apple News Plus.”




                                                 41
             Case 1:26-cv-04427      Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 42 of 54




       98.     Perplexity generates fabricated content that claims that its users can pay to upgrade

and get access to CNN’s premium content, when no such option exists, thereby falsely claiming an

affiliation between Perplexity and CNN. Moreover, Perplexity’s fabricated content misleads its users

into believing that its content is sponsored by, endorsed, or approved by CNN. Thus, Perplexity uses

CNN’s famous, registered trademarks to falsely claim an affiliation between Perplexity and CNN.

       99.     Perplexity also violates CNN’s trademarks when it misleadingly omits, modifies, or

hallucinates portions of CNN’s trademarked publications without disclosing those omissions,

modifications, or hallucinations and displays the inaccurate reproductions alongside CNN’s famous

trademarks. For example, as captured below, when asked for quotes attributed to Mikel Arteta, the


                                                42
           Case 1:26-cv-04427        Document 1        Filed 05/28/26     Page 43 of 54




manager of the Arsenal soccer team, Perplexity will produce nonsensical statements—i.e., “I burn

every of blood this football to make it better.” When Perplexity is asked why these quotes appear

incorrect, Perplexity blames CNN, suggesting it is a “bad transcription, bad machine translation, or

a copy-editing.”




                                                43
           Case 1:26-cv-04427         Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 44 of 54




       100.    Perplexity’s use of CNN’s mark in this manner is likely to cause dilution by blurring

and/or tarnishing CNN’s famous mark and causes serious damage to its worldwide reputation for

truth and accuracy in reporting. Perplexity’s use of CNN’s trademarks to falsely claim an affiliation



                                                 44
             Case 1:26-cv-04427            Document 1         Filed 05/28/26        Page 45 of 54




with CNN that does not exist is a commercial transaction that is likely to divert traffic, sales and

subscriptions from CNN, which commercially harms CNN. In addition, Perplexity’s use of this mark

to falsely claim an affiliation constitutes false designations of origin and confuses and deceives

Perplexity users into believing (falsely) that the Perplexity’s outputs are associated with, sponsored

by, or approved by CNN. This false belief, induced by Perplexity, unjustly enriches Perplexity and

causes significant harm to CNN.

        V.       CNN Suffers Harm from Perplexity’s Illegal Conduct

        101.     By copying CNN’s copyrighted content and using it to create substitutive output

derived from its works, obviating the need for users to visit CNN Digital Platforms, Perplexity is

misappropriating substantial subscription, advertising, licensing, and affiliate revenue opportunities

that belong rightfully and exclusively to CNN.

        102.     Perplexity’s latest valuation at $20 billion and success at raising funds of nearly $1.5

billion72 are indicative of the potentially massive illegal transfer of economic value from original

content creators like CNN to Perplexity. Indeed, according to a news report, in 2024, Perplexity

spent $48M on cloud services, paid $19M for talent, and paid $8M to Anthropic and OpenAI to use

their models yet paid CNN nothing for using CNN’s content to power its products.73

        103.     In addition to this massive misappropriation of revenue, when outputs from

Perplexity’s GenAI Products falsely claim that its users can get access to CNN’s premium content,

CNN is further harmed by false attributions and dilution. Perplexity’s false claims (using CNN’s

trademarks) damage the value of CNN’s trademarks and hard-earned reputation. Likewise,



72
   Rebecca Torrence, Charles Rollet, and Ben Bergman, AI startup Perplexity is raising more money at a $20 billion
valuation, Business Insider (Aug. 13, 2025), https://www.businessinsider.com/perplexity-valuation-jumps-to-20-
billion-in-latest-fundraise-2025-8.
73
   Sri Muppidi, For Google Challenger Perplexity, Growth Comes at a High Cost, The Information (May 19, 2025),
https://www.theinformation.com/articles/google-challenger-perplexity-growth-comes-high-cost?rc=lvqcdt.



                                                       45
                 Case 1:26-cv-04427              Document 1           Filed 05/28/26          Page 46 of 54




Perplexity’s misleading excerpts, modifications, or hallucinations of CNN’s content, passed off as

the complete versions of CNN’s high-quality, meticulously researched, and trusted content (using

CNN’s trademarks), damage the value of CNN’s trademarks. The modifications, undisclosed

omissions, and hallucinations also cause harm to the public.

           104.      Perplexity has admitted by its own actions, including its “Publishers’ Program” and

licensing deals with certain publishers, that there is a market for licensing copyrighted works for AI

purposes. Perplexity has stated that one key component of its Publishers Program is “revenue

sharing”: “When Perplexity earns revenue from an interaction where a publisher’s content is

referenced, that publisher will also earn a share.”74 Although Perplexity has been quick to emphasize

that other tech companies have not engaged in revenue-sharing,75 Perplexity is free riding on CNN

reporting.

           105.      Perplexity has willfully chosen to operate without such licenses and to scrape

copyrighted content with impunity even when expressly asked by the copyright owner not to do so.

CNN is directly injured by Perplexity’s theft of its works, which serves to devalue CNN and deprive

it of immediate and potential subscription, advertising, licensing and affiliate revenue. For example,

one published study has concluded that “AI bots on average are sending 95.7% less referral traffic

than traditional Google search.”76

           106.      Perplexity’s unlawful conduct also harms the public by eroding the economic

incentives necessary for creating trustworthy, informative content. In the long term, if the intellectual


74
      Perplexity   Team,      Introducing    the    Perplexity    Publishers’     Program             (July    30,     2024),
https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/blog/introducing-the-perplexity-publishers-program.
75
   Harvard Business School, supra note 44, at 27:02-27:20 (Srinivas: “We’re also having a publisher program, where
we share revenue made on a query with the publishers. And, by the way, this is something Google never did. They make
a lot of ad revenue. They tell publishers, we’re giving you traffic. But they don’t share the ad revenue with the
publishers.”).
76
     Tollbit, AI Scraping is on the Rise, Tollbit State of the Bots – Q4 2024 (Feb. 24, 2025), https://tollbit.com/bots/24q4/.



                                                              46
            Case 1:26-cv-04427         Document 1        Filed 05/28/26      Page 47 of 54




property rights of CNN and other news organizations are not respected and enforced, creators will

not be able to generate high-quality content because they will not receive a sufficient return on

investment. Diminished content will further result in reduced revenue, and thus less spending on

content creation, spawning even less content of even poorer quality and even less revenue, and so

on in a downward spiral for news organizations like CNN. In this way, Perplexity imperils the very

market for the high-quality content that it copies and reproduces, and upon which its entire business

depends.

                                         COUNT I
       Copyright Infringement (17 U.S.C. § 106(1)) – Perplexity’s Acquisition of CNN’s
               Copyrighted Works to Create “Inputs” for its GenAI Products

        107.    CNN restates and incorporates by reference its allegations as set forth in the

preceding paragraphs.

        108.    CNN holds exclusive rights to the extensive body of copyrighted material it seeks to

protect in this case.

        109.    This includes copyrights registered with the U.S. Copyright Office, including the

registrations attached in a summary chart as Exhibit A. It also includes all CNN copyrights

registrations that have been filed subsequent to the last registration listed on Exhibit A.

        110.    Upon information and belief, Perplexity, without CNN’s authorization, directly or

indirectly through third parties, has willfully copied as much CNN content that it has been able to

access with its own or with third parties’ web crawlers as inputs into database(s) or index(es). These

inputs include content covered by the registrations listed at Exhibit A.

        111.    This database(s) or index(es) are used for a process commonly referred to as retrieval-

augmented generation or “RAG.”

        112.    The copies that are made as inputs into Perplexity’s AI product, which may be




                                                  47
            Case 1:26-cv-04427         Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 48 of 54




retained in Perplexity’s RAG database(s) or index(es), are distinct copyright violations on a massive

scale.

         113.   Perplexity’s massive and ongoing infringements violate the Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C.

§ 106(1).

         114.   Perplexity’s infringements are ongoing, and CNN is entitled to injunctive relief and

other equitable remedies.

         115.   CNN is also entitled to statutory damages, actual damages, restitution of profits,

attorneys’ fees, costs of suit, and other remedies provided by law.

                                       COUNT II
 Copyright Infringement (17 U.S.C. § 106(2)) – Perplexity’s Copying of CNN’s Copyrighted
                      Works to Create “Outputs” to User Queries

         116.   CNN restates and incorporates by reference its allegations as set forth in the

preceding paragraphs.

         117.   CNN holds exclusive rights to the extensive body of copyrighted material it seeks to

protect in this case.

         118.   This includes copyrights registered with the U.S. Copyright Office, including the

registrations attached in a summary chart as Exhibit A.

         119.   Upon information and belief, Perplexity, without CNN’s authorization, directly or

indirectly through a third party, has willfully copied as much CNN content that it has been able to

access with its own or with third parties’ web crawlers as inputs into database(s) or index(es),

including content covered by the registrations listed at Exhibit A.

         120.   This database(s) or index(es) are used for a process commonly referred to as retrieval-

augmented generation or “RAG.”

         121.   Perplexity, in turn, uses CNN’s copyrighted content, accessed through its RAG




                                                  48
            Case 1:26-cv-04427          Document 1        Filed 05/28/26    Page 49 of 54




process, to produce outputs, or “answers” to user queries.

        122.    The outputs or “answers” to user queries contain and/or are derived from CNN’s

copyrighted content, whether they come in the form of verbatim or near-verbatim reproductions,

summaries, or abridgements of CNN’s copyrighted works, or any other reproduced or derivative

content sourced from CNN’s copyrighted works—all of which infringe on CNN’s copyrighted

content.

        123.    As Perplexity has publicly stated, these outputs are designed to eliminate the need for

its users to visit the original content creators’ websites.

        124.    Every instance in which Perplexity, on its own or by directing or controlling a third

party, copies CNN’s copyrighted work in the process of generating outputs or “answers,” constitutes

a separate violation of the Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. § 106(2).

        125.    Perplexity’s infringements are ongoing, and CNN is entitled to injunctive relief and

other equitable remedies.

        126.    CNN is also entitled to statutory damages, actual damages, restitution of profits,

attorneys’ fees, costs of suit, and other remedies provided by law.

                                          COUNT III
                       Contributory and Vicarious Copyright Infringement

        127.    CNN restates and incorporates by reference its allegations as set forth in the

preceding paragraphs.

        128.    In the alternative, to the extent that Perplexity argues that an end-user—rather than

Perplexity—should be liable as a direct infringer based on Perplexity outputs, Perplexity is

secondarily liable for unlawfully reproducing, displaying, distributing, and preparing derivatives of

CNN’s copyrighted works under contributory infringement by inducement and vicarious

infringement.



                                                    49
              Case 1:26-cv-04427       Document 1         Filed 05/28/26     Page 50 of 54




       129.     Perplexity, without CNN’s permission or consent, has unlawfully reproduced,

distributed to the public, publicly displayed, and prepared derivative works based upon CNN’s

content. Such activity, which is ongoing, constitutes direct infringement or an unauthorized act in

violation of the Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. §§ 106(1)–(3), (5) and 501.

       130.     Perplexity intentionally induces its users’ infringing activity. Perplexity intends that

its RAG process responds to users with outputs that infringe CNN’s works. Perplexity designs,

operates, and maintains its RAG process that is designed to foster the infringement of CNN’s

copyrighted works and transmit those infringing copies to users via its answer engine. Perplexity has

the means to prevent such material contribution but does not do so. Instead, it intentionally avoids

taking steps to sufficiently mitigate its infringement.

       131.     Perplexity promotes itself as a service providing such content, inducing its users’

direct infringement. As a direct and proximate result of such actions, Perplexity has infringed CNN’s

copyrighted content.

       132.     Perplexity is also vicariously liable for these infringements by licensees. Perplexity

has the legal right and practical ability to supervise and control the infringing activities that occur

through and as a result of its RAG process. Perplexity has refused to take reasonable steps to prevent

the infringement by users and licensees of its RAG process, including by ignoring or evading

technological features, such as robots.txt, designed specifically to guard against Perplexity’s copying

of CNN’s works. As a direct and proximate result of such refusal, Perplexity has infringed CNN’s

copyrights.

       133.     Additionally, Perplexity receives a direct financial benefit from the infringing

activity. First, Perplexity draws users, licensees, and potential licensees to its products by claiming

its “answers” “Skip the links” by providing “a single, comprehensive answer that summarizes




                                                  50
           Case 1:26-cv-04427         Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 51 of 54




everything you need to know.” In his public statements, Perplexity’s CEO has similarly emphasized

Perplexity’s ability to provide users, licensees, and potential licensees comprehensive responses

based on breaking news content. Second, by providing outputs containing high-quality, breaking

news content, Perplexity encourages users to become paid licensees. Indeed, Perplexity will copy

and output CNN’s articles verbatim to Perplexity users if they pay a fee to Perplexity. See supra ¶¶

79, 95. And a licensee is more likely to remain one (or select a higher-priced plan) if the licensee

continues to obtain the same high-quality news content.

                                         COUNT IV
               False Designation of Origin and Dilution of CNN’s Trademarks
                                     (15 U.S.C. § 1125)

       134.    CNN restates and incorporates by reference its allegations as set forth in the

preceding paragraphs.

       135.    CNN is the owner of the federally registered trademarks for the Mark “CNN”

referenced in Exhibit B (collectively “The CNN Mark”). CNN has used, and continues to use, the

CNN Mark on its products and publications, including the CNN.com website, as well as other CNN

Digital Platforms.

       136.    The CNN Mark is distinctive and famous.

       137.    The CNN Mark is a distinctive and “famous mark” within the meaning of Section

43(c) of the Lanham Act, is widely recognized by the general consuming public of the United States,

and became distinctive and famous prior to Perplexity’s unauthorized use.

       138.    The registrations in Exhibit B are valid, subsisting and incontestable.

       139.    Defendant’s unauthorized use of the CNN Mark in interstate commerce to falsely

claim an affiliation between CNN and Perplexity dilutes the quality of the CNN Mark by

tarnishment in violation of 15 U.S.C § 1125(c).




                                                  51
            Case 1:26-cv-04427        Document 1        Filed 05/28/26     Page 52 of 54




       140.    In addition, when Perplexity’s website and app are asked questions that relate to

CNN’s content, the applications will often misleadingly omit or modify portions of CNN’s

trademarked publications, or falsely attribute hallucinated content to CNN’s trademark

publications. Perplexity’s actions are a commercial transaction.

       141.    Upon information and belief, Perplexity is aware that its applications falsely claim

that its users may lawfully access CNN’s trademarked publications and content. Upon information

and belief, Perplexity is also aware that its applications hallucinate and/or misleadingly omit or

modify portions of CNN’s publications and falsely suggest that its hallucinated or incomplete

reproductions constitute the entirety of CNN’s content.

       142.    Perplexity has used and, upon information and belief, continues to use in interstate

commerce “CNN” and marks similar and/or identical to the CNN Mark in a misleading manner,

falsely claiming that its outputs are sponsored by, endorsed or affiliated with CNN.

       143.    Perplexity’s use of similar and/or identical copies of the CNN Mark without

authorization, in connection with its GenAI Products, creates an association in the minds of its users

that the outputs generated by Perplexity’s GenAI Products are derived from, associated with, and/or

complete version of sources of high-quality content. This association, in turn, impairs the

distinctiveness of the marks.

       144.    Perplexity’s actions also violate 15 U.S.C. § 1125(c) because they are likely to cause

dilution of CNN’s famous and distinctive marks by blurring and/or tarnishment.

       145.    Perplexity’s actions violate 15 U.S.C. § 1125(a)(1) because they trade upon CNN’s

valuable reputation and consumer goodwill by using the CNN Mark and/or confusingly similar

marks in a manner that causes and/or is likely to cause confusion, mistake, or deception of consumers

into believing that Perplexity’s outputs are factually correct, complete, and authoritative because




                                                 52
              Case 1:26-cv-04427       Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 53 of 54




they are sourced from, associated with, sponsored by, or approved by CNN.

       146.     Upon information and belief, Perplexity has actual knowledge of CNN’s ownership

and use of the CNN Mark. Perplexity’s use of the trademark without the consent of CNN constitutes

a willful violation of 15 U.S.C. § 1125.

       147.     Perplexity’s infringements are ongoing, and CNN is entitled to injunctive relief and

other equitable remedies.

       148.     CNN is also entitled to statutory damages, actual damages, treble damages, restitution

of profits, attorneys’ fees, costs of suit, and other remedies provided by law.

                                           COUNT V
                            Trademark Infringement (15 U.S.C. § 1114)
       149.     CNN restates and incorporates by reference its allegations set forth in the preceding

paragraphs.

       150.     Perplexity makes unauthorized and willful use of CNN’s federally registered

trademarks, including in connection with the sale, distribution, and advertising of its services.

Perplexity uses marks in commerce that are either identical to, variations of, or colorable imitations

of CNN’s federally registered trademarks in connection with the generation and distribution of

hallucinated content that CNN did not create.

       151.     Perplexity’s use infringes CNN’s exclusive rights in its federally registered

trademarks, and has caused and is likely to cause confusion, mistake, or deception as to whether the

articles Perplexity provides are associated or affiliated with, or are sponsored, endorsed, or approved

by CNN. Perplexity’s use is intended to reap the benefit of consumers’ trust in CNN. Perplexity

intentionally, willfully, and deliberately uses CNN’s federally registered marks despite Perplexity’s

knowledge that it has no right, license, or authority to use this mark or any confusingly similar

variation of this mark.



                                                  53
            Case 1:26-cv-04427         Document 1       Filed 05/28/26      Page 54 of 54




        152.   Perplexity’s infringements are ongoing, and CNN is entitled to injunctive relief and

other equitable remedies.

        153.   CNN is also entitled to statutory damages, actual damages, treble damages, restitution

of profits, attorneys’ fees, costs of suit, and other remedies provided by law.

                                     PRAYER FOR RELIEF

        WHEREFORE, Plaintiff respectfully demands judgment against Perplexity as follows:

   a.      Awarding Plaintiff statutory damages, actual damages, treble damages, restitution of

           profits, and any other relief that may be permitted by law or equity;

   b.      Permanently enjoining Perplexity from engaging in the unlawful conduct alleged herein;

   c.      Awarding Plaintiff costs, expenses, and attorneys’ fees as permitted by law; and

   d.      Awarding Plaintiff such other or further relief as the Court may deem just.

                                  DEMAND FOR JURY TRIAL

        CNN hereby demands a jury trial for all claims so triable.


        Dated: May 28, 2026                   By: /s/ Steven Lieberman

                                              Steven Lieberman (SL8687)
                                              Jennifer B. Maisel (5096995)
                                              Sharon Davis (pro hac vice forthcoming)
                                              Alexandra Hughes (pro hac vice forthcoming)
                                              Kristen J. Logan (pro hac vice forthcoming)
                                              ROTHWELL, FIGG, ERNST & MANBECK, P.C.
                                              901 New York Avenue, N.W., Suite 900 East
                                              Washington, DC 20001
                                              Telephone: (202) 783-6040
                                              Facsimile: (202) 783-6031
                                              slieberman@rothwellfigg.com
                                              jmaisel@rothwellfigg.com
                                              sdavis@rothwellfigg.com
                                              ahughes@rothwellfigg.com
                                              klogan@rothwellfigg.com


                                              Attorneys for Plaintiff Cable News Network, Inc.


                                                  54
