2026 INSC 947                                                                  REPORTABLE



                                       IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
                                        CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION


                                     CIVIL APPEAL NO.        OF 2026
                              [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO. 15605 OF 2026]



             VIJAY GHANSHYAM GADIYA                                         … APPELLANT


                                                        VS.


             UNION OF INDIA & ANR.                                        … RESPONDENTS



                                                     ORDER

             DIPANKAR DATTA, J.


             1.             Leave granted.

             2.             The Additional Commissioner of Customs, Surat1 passed an Order-in-

             Original dated 8th October, 2025 imposing a penalty of Rs. 425,27,99,100/-

             on the appellant, under Section 114 of the Customs Act, 1962, for mis-

             declaring a consignment of natural diamonds as lab-grown diamonds to pay

             a lower tariff. The challenge laid to the said penalty by the appellant before

             the High Court of Gujarat2 failed, as his appeal stood dismissed vide order

             dated 20th January, 2026. This order of High Court is impugned before us.
   Signature Not Verified

   Digitally signed by
   MANIK KUMAR
   Date: 2026.09.02
   18:46:38 IST
   Reason:



             1
                 second respondent
             2
                 High Court

                                                         1
3.      Entering into the merits of the challenge is unnecessary, since it has

been contended on behalf of the appellant that several judgments and

articles cited by the second respondent in the Order-in-Original dated 8th

October, 2025 are generated using Artificial Intelligence3.

4.      We have made the effort to individually verify whether such

contention of the appellant is true. Upon verifying such judgments and

articles, it does appear that the second respondent has relied upon case

laws that are either non-existent or have fake citations. A further

investigation has also revealed that some of the case laws relied upon by

the second respondent, which do exist, do not lay down the ratio deduced

therefrom and it appears to be a hallucination of AI.

5.      Such a discovery compels us to refer to the decision of this Court in

Pooja Ramesh Singh v. Jammu & Kashmir Bank Ltd.4. It happens to

be a precedent dealing with the use of AI in judgments. Excerpts therefrom

read:

        7. It is necessary for courts to adopt a zero-tolerance mode for producing,
        citing or using artificial intelligence-generated precedents without
        verification. It is a misconduct on the part of an advocate to cite such
        judgments without verification. Equally, it is a serious lapse if a judge relies
        on such a fake or hallucinated artificial intelligence-generated material as
        precedents in support of the determination. We have no hesitation in
        declaring that such a decision is no decision in the eyes of the law,
        irrespective of whether such material had a direct or indirect bearing on the
        decision-making. Such decisions are to be set aside even if an iota of fake
        or hallucinated material enters the decision-making process, as it would
        violate the sanctity of adjudication. It is absolutely necessary to maintain
        integrity in decision page making, and we reiterate and declare zero
        tolerance for the Bar as well as the Bench to cite, refer to, or rely on such
        material. It is also clarified that our judgment shall have no bearing on the
        rightful use of artificial intelligence, but on the presentation or reliance on
        fake or hallucinated material as if it were a court precedent.

3
    AI
4
    2026 SCC OnLine SC 1258

                                           2
6.    At this juncture, we may also add a comment on the use of Artificial

Intelligence in adjudicatory processes. While this issue incidentally falls

upon us to be considered, use of AI in the process of adjudication is not

foreign. Quite the contrary, this Court has recently released draft

Regulations for Use of Artificial Intelligence in Courts, 2026, calling for

comments and suggestions. Notwithstanding that the regulations are yet

to be finalised, use of AI as an assistive tool to speed up the decision-

making process cannot be denied. However, a note of caution must be

sounded: assistance can never be substituted for adjudication. AI may well

serve as training wheels but entrusting it with the pilot’s seat would be both

imprudent and dangerous.

7.    The use of AI in this case, resulting in reliance placed by the second

respondent on material which is dubious, proves fatal to the sustainability

of the order imposing penalty on the appellant. Such circumstances compel

us to interfere and remand the case. Learned Additional Solicitor General

has not joined issue.

8.    For the foregoing reasons, the impugned order of the High Court

confirming the penalty is consequently set aside together with the Order-

in-Original, with the result that the proceedings against the appellant

before the second respondent shall stand revived for being decided afresh

by an officer of the same rank other than the one who passed the order

dated 8th October, 2025.

9.    The civil appeal stands allowed.



                                      3
10.   Pending application(s), if any, stand disposed of.

11.   We leave it to the wisdom of the appointing authority to initiate such

action against the author of the order dated 8th October, 2025, as may be

warranted in the circumstances, in accordance with law.




                                           ………..……………………………J.
                                                 (DIPANKAR DATTA)




                                          …….……..…………………………J.
                                                    (SHEEL NAGU)
NEW DELHI;
SEPTEMBER 02, 2026.




                                     4
