UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE
BEFORE THE DIRECTOR OF THE
UNITED STATES PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE

In the Matter of )
Brian E. Mitchell, Proceeding No. D2026-16
Respondent
)
FINAL ORDER

The Director of the Office of Enrollment and Discipline (‘OED Director’) for the United States
Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO” or “Office”) and Mr. Brian E. Mitchell (“Respondent”) have
submitted a Proposed Settlement Agreement (“Agreement”), executed by Respondent on July 20, 2026,
and executed by the OED Director on July 21, 2026, to the Under Secretary of Commerce for
Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO
Director”) for approval.

The Agreement, which resolves all disciplinary action by the USPTO arising from the stipulated
facts set forth below, is hereby approved. This Final Order sets forth the parties’ stipulated facts, legal
conclusions, and sanctions.

Jurisdiction

1. Atall times relevant hereto, Respondent of San Francisco, California has been a registered
patent attorney (Registration Number 50,612) and an attorney licensed by, and in active status
with, the State Bar of California (Bar Number 190095). Respondent is subject to the USPTO
Rules of Professional Conduct, 37 C.F.R. § 11.101 ef seq.

2. The USPTO Director has jurisdiction over this matter pursuant to 35 U.S.C, §§ 2(b)(2)(D)
and 32 and 37 C.F.R. §§ 11.19, £1.20, and 11.26.

Joint Stipulated Facts

3. Respondent of San Francisco, California, is a registered practitioner (Registration Number
50,612) and an attorney licensed by, and in active status with, the State Bar of California (Bar
Number 190095).

4, Respondent was registered with the USPTO as a patent attorney in 2002 but has never
prosecuted a patent or trademark application or appeared before the USPTO Trademark Trial and
Appeal Board or the USPTO Patent Trial and Appeal Board.

5. Respondent represented the owner of U.S. patents, who was the plaintiff in a patent
infringement case before the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(“the Court”), captioned Mdagpul Industries Corp. v. Mission First Tactical Group, Ine. et al.,
No, 2:24-cv-5551 (E.D. Pa. July 28, 2025).

6. | When preparing the plaintiff's portion of a Joint Claim Construction Chart (“the JCCC”),
Respondent used one generative artificial intelligence (“AI”) tool to assist with drafting proposed
claim constructions of certain claim terms of the patent in question. Respondent then used a
second AI tool to review the plaintiff's portion of the document.

7. The Al-generated sections of the plaintiff's portion of the JCCC included citations to the
intrinsic evidence of the patent, including the patent’s specification, figures, and prosecution
history. At least some of the Al-generated citations were erroneous.

8. Thereafter, the parties to the litigation determined that there were substantial errors in the
plaintiff's citations to the intrinsic evidence in support of its proposed constructions.
Specifically, many of the plaintiff's citations, quotations, and parentheticals referred to portions
of the record that did not exist or were inaccurately attributed.

9. When these errors were identified, Respondent reviewed the plaintiff's portion of the
JCCC, identified and acknowledged additional erroneous citations, and committed to providing
same-day corrections. A revised claim chart was circulated the following day with the
inaccurate citations removed and replaced with accurate citations to the intrinsic record
previously submitted to the Court.

10. Although Respondent represents that the originally proposed constructions themselves
were grounded in the claims, specification, figures, and prosecution history, Respondent
acknowledged that the erroneous citations were not sufficiently checked against the source
documents.

11. Respondent represents that the mistakes were quickly corrected and that his client suffered
no prejudice in the action. He also represents that the lawsuit was later dismissed with prejudice
in view of a settlement between the parties.

12. The Court did not impose sanctions due to the inaccurate Al-generated citations on
Respondent or his client.

Additional Considerations

13. Respondent acted promptly to acknowledge and correct the inaccurate claims construction
citations generated by Al.

14. Respondent promptly took full responsibility for the errors in the claim construction
document.

15. In an effort to mitigate any potential harm to his clients and as further evidence of
Respondent’s accountability in the matter, Respondent requested that any sanction by the Court
be directed solely at him and not at his client, which he represented had played no role in the
error and had acted in good faith throughout.
16. Respondent has no history of discipline before the USPTO, and he represents that, to date,
he has not been disciplined by any other jurisdiction or tribunal before which he has practiced.

17. Respondent cooperated fully with OED’s investigation, e.g., by providing full and candid
responses to OED’s requests for information and agreeing to meet with OED to discuss the
matter.

18. Respondent has acknowledged his errors, demonstrated genuine contrition, and accepted
responsibility for his acts and omissions.

Joint Legal Conclusions

19, Respondent acknowledges that, based on the information contained in the joint stipulated
facts, above, that Respondent’s acts and omissions violated the following provisions of the
USPTO Rules of Professional Conduct:

a, 37 C.F.R. § 11.101 (a practitioner shall provide competent representation) by,
inter alia, (1) not fully understanding the actual or potential inherent risks (e.g.,
mistakes, hallucinated citations or quotations, etc.) of Al-based legal research and
drafting tools used in connection with representation of a client; (2) not
adequately reviewing the citations to the intrinsic record (e.g., the patent’s
specification, figures, and prosecution history) in a paper submitted to a tribunal
in connection with a legal proceeding; and (3) not fully understanding the
requirement to conduct an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances when
presenting a paper to a tribunal;

b. 37 C.F.R. § 11.103 (a practitioner shall act with reasonable diligence) by, inter
alia, (1) not making reasonable use of Al-based legal research and drafting tools
in connection with representation of a client; (2) not adequately reviewing the
citations to the intrinsic record (e.g., the patent’s specification, figures, and
prosecution history) in a paper submitted to a tribunal in connection with a legal
proceeding; and (3) prior to presenting the client’s portion of the claim
construction document to the district court, not conducting an inquiry reasonable
under the circumstances in order to certify that that the citations offered in support
of the client’s proposed claim construction were warranted by fact or law;

c. 37 C.F.R. § 11.804(c) (prohibiting conduct involving misrepresentation) by, inter
alia, presenting inaccurate support, including false citations and quotations from
the intrinsic record (¢.g., the patent’s specification, figures, and prosecution
history), for the client’s proposed claim constructions to the district court; and

d, 37 C.F.R. § 11.804(d) (prohibiting conduct prejudicial to the administration of
justice) by, infer alia, (1) prior to presenting a paper to the district court, not
conducting an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances in order to certify that
the citations offered in support of the client’s proposed claim construction were
warranted by fact or law, and (2) presenting erroneous citations and quotations to
the district court in support of the client’s proposed claim constructions.

Agreed-Upon Sanction
20. Respondent freely and voluntarily agreed, and it hereby ORDERED that:
a, Respondent is hereby publicly reprimanded;
b. The OED Director shall electronically publish the Final Order at the OED’s electronic

FOIA Reading Room, which is publicly accessible through the Office’s website at:
https://foiadocuments.uspto.gov/oed/;

¢. The OED Director shall publish a notice in the Official Gazette that is materially
consistent with the following:

Notice of Public Reprimand

This notice concerns Brian E. Mitchell of San Francisco, California, who is
a registered patent attorney (Registration Number 50,612). Mr. Mitchell is
hereby reprimanded for violating 37 C.F.R. §§ 11.101 (a practitioner shall
provide competent representation), 11.103 (a practitioner shall act with
reasonable diligence), 11.804(c) (engaging in conduct involving
misrepresentation), and |1.804(d) (engaging in conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice). The violations are predicated on presenting a
claim construction document in Magpul Industries Corp. v. Mission First
Tactical Group, Ine. et al., No. 2:24-cv-5551 (E.D. Pa.) that contained
inaccurate citations to portions of the underlying patent’s intrinsic record.

Mr. Mitchell used generative artificial intelligence (“AI”) tools to assist
with preparation of a claim construction chart, which resulted in
Al-generated citations that inaccurately cited to and quoted from the
patent’s intrinsic evidence, including the specification, figures, and file
history. Mr. Mitchell subsequently failed to conduct an adequate review of
the claim construction document for accuracy prior to signing the document
and submitting it to the district court. When the inaccuracies surfaced, Mr.
Mitchell acted promptly to acknowledge and correct the inaccurate claim
construction citations generated by AI. He accepted full responsibility for
the errors in the claim construction document.

Registered practitioners and all practitioners who are engaged in practice
before the USPTO should be mindful of their ethical obligations under the
USPTO Rules of Professional Conduct whenever using AI tools in their law
practice. Such rules may include, but are not limited to, the following:
e 37C.F.R. § 11.101 (competence), such that a practitioner reasonably
is to understand the actual or potential inherent risks (e.g., mistakes,
biased or unreliable results, hallucinations, unintended disclosures
of information relating to the representation of clients) of the Al
tool(s) he or she is using when representing a client; and

e 37 C.FE.R. § 11.103 (diligence), § 11.301 (meritorious claims and
contentions), § 11.303 (candor toward the tribunal), § 11.804{c)
(misrepresentation), and § 11.804(d) (conduct prejudicial to the
administration of justice, including adversely affecting the integrity
of the USPTO’s patent issuance and trademark registration
processes) such that a practitioner is to reasonably and carefully
review Al-generated documents or portions thereof for accuracy,
and to comply with his or her obligations under 37 C.F.R. § 11.18
(which, in relevant part, substantially parallels Rule 11 of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure) to conduct an inquiry reasonable
under the circumstances to ensure that, prior to presenting
documents to the USPTO, the factual and legal contentions
presented therein are warranted.

Practitioners are further cautioned that the potential pitfalls of Al-generated
citation errors are not limited to extrinsic sources such as statutes,
regulations, and case law, but may also extend to the intrinsic evidence of
patent and trademark applications and their file wrappers.

In short, when contemplating the use of AI in one’s legal practice,
practitioners may find useful the succinct warning provided by the Ninth
Circuit Court of Appeals: “[B]e aware of the risks of overreliance on
generative Al, read everything cited in a ... filing—whether drafted by
generative AI or not—and disclose quickly and transparently generative Al
hallucinations that are inadvertently included in [such] filings.” Znu
v. Blanche, No. 24-4790 (9th Cir. 2026).

This action is the result of a settlement agreement between Brian E. Mitchell
and the OED Director pursuant to the provisions of 35 U.S.C. §§ 2(b)(2)(D)
and 32 and 37 C.F.R. §§ 11.19, 11.20, and 11.26. Disciplinary decisions
involving practitioners are posted for public reading at the Office of
Enrollment and Discipline Reading Room _ accessible at:
https://foiadocuments.uspto.gov/oed/,;

d. Nothing in the Proposed Settlement Agreement or this Final Order shall prevent the
Office from considering the record of this disciplinary proceeding, including the Final
Order: (1) when addressing any further complaint or evidence of the same or similar
misconduct concerning Respondent brought to the attention of the Office, and (2) in any
future disciplinary proceeding against Respondent (A) as an aggravating factor to be
taken into consideration in determining any discipline to be imposed, and/or (B) to rebut
any statement or representation by or on Respondent’s behalf}

e. Based on Respondent’s agreement to do so, Respondent waives all rights to seek
reconsideration of the Final Order under 37 C.F.R. § 11.56, waives the right to have the
Final Order reviewed under 37 C.F.R. § 11.57, and waives the right otherwise to appeal
or challenge the Final Order in any manner; and

f. The OED Director and Respondent shall each bear their own costs incurred to date
and in carrying out the terms of this Final Order.

TR | C | A C H O Digitally signed by TRICIA CHOE
Date: 2026.07.27 10:19:15 -04'00'

Tricia Choe Date
Associate General Counsel for General Law
United States Patent and Trademark Office

on delegated authority by

John A. Squires
Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and
Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

| HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing Final Order was sent, on this day, to the parties in
the manner indicated below:

Via first-class certified mail, return receipt requested:

Brian E. Mitchell
Mitchell + Company
575 Market St., Fl. 4
San Francisco, CA 94105-5818
Respondent

Via email:

John Ferman
Associate Solicitor
Office of the Solicitor

Paul Nguyen-Ba
Senior Counsel for Patent and Trademark Disciplinary Matters
Office of Enrollment and Discipline
paul.nguyen-ba@uspto.gov

.S. Pafent and Trademark O
P.O. Box 1450
Alexandria, VA 22313-1450

ffice
